	
		D I A N E T I C S  T O D A Y






[picture#01]

                Dianetics Symbol

    The Greek letter Delta is the basic form.
Green for growth, yellow for life.

    The four stripes represent the ~four~
dynamics of Dianetics; Survival as
I self, II Sex and Family, III Group
and IV Mankind.

    This symbol was designed in 1950
and has been used since.       LRH



                TO THE READER
§    Scientology(R) is a religious philosophy containing
spiritual counseling procedures intended to assist an
individual to attain spiritual freedom. The mission of
the Church of Scientology is a simple one--to help
the individual attain full awareness of himself as an
immortal being, and of his relationship to the
Supreme Being. The attainment of the benefits and
goals of Scientology requires each individual's
dedicated participation as only through his own efforts
can he himself, as a spiritual being, achieve these.

§    This is part of the religious literature and works
of the Founder of Scientology, L. Ron Hubbard. It is
presented to the reader as part of the record of his
personal research into life, and should be construed
only as a written report of such research and not as a
statement of claims made by the church or the author.

§    Scientology and Dianetics, as practiced by the church,
address only the "thetan" (spirit). Although the church, as all
churches, is free to engage in spiritual healing, it does not,
as its primary goal is increased ~spiritual awareness~ for all.
For this reason, the church does not wish to accept individuals
who desire treatment of physical illness or insanity but refers
these to qualified specialists of other organizations who deal
in these matters.

§    The Hubbard Electrometer is a religious artifact
used in the church confessional. It, in itself, does
nothing, and is used by ministers only, to assist
parishioners in locating areas of spiritual distress or
travail.

§    We hope the reading of this book is only the first
stage of a personal voyage of discovery into the new
and vital world religion of Scientology.

This book belongs to: ___________________

Date ______________________

                THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                CHURCHES OF SCIENTOLOGY



    All mail addressed to me shall be received by me.
I am always willing to help. By my own creed, a being
is only as valuable as he can serve others.

    Any message addressed to me and sent to the address
of the nearest Scientology church listed in the back of this
book, will be forwarded to me directly.
                                        [signature]
                                        L. RON HUBBARD




                Dianetics(R) Today






                DIANETICS TODAY

                    by

                L. Ron Hubbard

Publications Organization
-------------------------------------------------
                                        Los Angeles







                Published by
                Church of Scientology of California
                Publications Organization United States
                The American Saint Hill Organization
                2723 West Temple Street
                Los Angeles, California 90026

                ~Church of Scientology of California
                is a non-profit organization~.

                ~Scientology is an applied religious philosophy.
                Dianetics(R) and Scientology(R) are
                registered names~.

                First printing 1975
                Copyright (C) 1951, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1963,
                1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1969, 1970,
                1971, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975 by L. Ron Hubbard.
                All Rights Reserved.

                ~The E-meter is not intended or effective for
                the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any
                disease~.

                ~A Dianetics Publication.
                Dianetics is the trademark of L. Ron Hubbard
                in respect of his published works~.

                Compiled and edited by
                The LRH Personal Compilations Bureau

                Edited by: Jill Steinberg/Alethiea C. Taylor
                Artwork by: Andre Clavel

                ISBN 0-88404-036-4

                Printed by
                Kingsport Press, Inc.
                Printed in the U.S.A.





                Important Note

    In reading this book, be very certain you never go
past a word you do not fully understand.

    ~The only reason a person gives up a study or
becomes confused or unable to learn is because
he or she has gone past a word that was not
understood~.

    The confusion or inability to grasp or learn comes
AFTER a word that was not understood.

    Have you ever had the experience of coming to the end
of a page and realizing that you didn't know what you had read?
Somewhere earlier on that page, you passed a word that you
didn't understand.

    If, in reading this book, the materials become confusing
or you can't seem to grasp it, there will be a word just earlier
that you haven't understood. Don't go any further but go
back to BEFORE you got into difficulty. Find the misunderstood
word and get it defined.

    An extensive glossary containing Dianetic and Scientology
words and terms dealing specifically with the text is provided in
the back of this book. These words carry an asterisk the first
time they appear. However, new and unusual words are not
the only words that cause difficulty. Commonly used words are
very often misdefined and usually cause the greatest difficulty.
Use a general English language dictionary for these.


                Contents

[FREEZONE BIBLE MISSION STATEMENT]

Introduction ................. ~iii~

BOOK ONE
Chapter 1    Become an Auditor ....... 1
Chapter 2    How To Study Dianetics .. 7
Chapter 3    Basic Dianetic Definitions
             and Illustrations ....... 37
Chapter 4    What Is The Mind? ....... 73
Chapter 5    Dianetic Use ............ 107

BOOK TWO
Chapter 1    The Magic of
             Communication ........... 119
Chapter 2    The E-Meter ............. 185
Chapter 3    Observing the Obvious ... 219
Chapter 4    End Phenomena ........... 231
Chapter 5    Administration, A Piece
             of Truth ................ 245
BOOK THREE
Chapter 1    Dianetic Auditing and
             Society ................. 275
Chapter 2    R3R Procedure ........... 327
Chapter 3    The Pc's Introduction
             to Auditing ............. 403
Chapter 4    Rudiments and
             Havingness .............. 411
Chapter 5    Assists ................. 425
Chapter 6    Drugs ................... 469
Chapter 7    The Bridge To Health .... 521
Chapter 8    Auditor Rights .......... 537
Chapter 9    The Ivory Tower ......... 545



Chapter 10    Personally C/Sed
              Sessions ............... 645
Chapter 11    Keeping Dianetics
              Working ................ 931
Chapter 12    The Value of Training .. 943

Quadruple Dianetics .................. 963
The Dianetic Axioms .................. 967
About the Author ..................... 987
Bibliography ......................... 991
Abbreviations List ................... 1009
Glossary ............................. 1013
Index ................................ 1045


**************************************************

FREEZONE BIBLE MISSION STATEMENT

Our purpose is to promote religious freedom and the Scientology
Religion by spreading the Scientology Tech across the internet.

The Cof$ abusively suppresses the practice and use of
Scientology Tech by FreeZone Scientologists.  It misuses the
copyright laws as part of its suppression of religious freedom.

They think that all freezoner's are "squirrels" who should be
stamped out as heritics.  By their standards, all Christians,
Moslems, Mormons, and even non-Hassidic Jews would be considered
to be squirrels of the Jewish Religion.

The writings of LRH form our Old Testament just as the writings
of Judiasm form the Old Testament of Christianity.

We might not be good and obedient Scientologists according
to the definitions of the Cof$ whom we are in protest against.

But even though the Christians are not good and obedient Jews,
the rules of religious freedom allow them to have their old
testament regardless of any Jewish opinion.

We ask for the same rights, namely to practice our religion
as we see fit and to have access to our holy scriptures
without fear of the Cof$ copyright terrorists.

We ask for others to help in our fight.  Even if you do
not believe in Scientology or the Scientology Tech, we hope
that you do believe in religious freedom and will choose
to aid us for that reason.

Thank You,

The FZ Bible Association

**************************************************

                iii

                INTRODUCTION

    DIANETICS means "through the soul" (from Greek ~dia~, through, and
~noos~, soul). It is the first fully precise science of the mind. The
world before Dianetics had never known a precision mental science.

    Dianetics was first conceived in 1930. A long research in ancient
and modern philosophy culminated in 1938 when I discovered that
the common denominator of all existence was "SURVIVE!"

    Dianetics was first publicly released in 1950 with the book
~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~, and has
been increasingly successful since that time.

    Dianetics was the basic discovery which led to and was the reason
for Scientology, (from Latin ~scio~, knowing in the fullest sense
of the word, and Greek ~logos~, to study), an applied religious
philosophy. In the early 1950s new discoveries concerning the spirit
brought us into Scientology.

    But Dianetics was never lost sight of and every little while I would
push it further ahead toward fast, easy 100 percent workability.

    Physical illness, aches, pains, continual exhaustion, body
malfunctions are created or held in an unchanging state by the mind.
This is called psychosomatic (~psycho~ -spirit, ~somatic~ -body)
illness. It has been known about for a century but there has never
been a positive remedy before Dianetics.

    The actual source of psychosomatic illness has been located in
Dianetics.

    No drugs, no hypnotism, no mechanical treatment is used.

    The end product of Dianetics is a well, happy, high IQ human being.
It does not attempt and should not be confused with the end product
of Scientology which is spiritual freedom.

    Though they hold in common certain basic tools, Dianetics and
Scientology are not identical subjects and their technologies are not
the same.

                iv

    Dianetics is the route from aberrated (or aberrated and ill) human
to a well, happy, high IQ human being. Scientology is the route from
there to total freedom and ability as a spiritual being.

    In early Dianetic research the human mind and basic human character
were found to have been most grossly maligned because Man had not
been able to distinguish irrational conduct derived from another, far
more vicious source.

    The ~reactive mind~ was discovered. The reactive mind is a portion
of a person's mind which works on a totally stimulus-response basis,
which is not under his volitional control and which exerts force and the
power of command over his awareness, purposes, thoughts, body and
actions. It had managed to bury itself from view so thoroughly that only
inductive philosophy, travelling from effect back to cause, served to
uncover it.

    The isolation and resolution of the reactive mind was a major
breakthrough for Man.

    The exact moment of the breakthrough is recorded with the book
~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~.

    This book burst on the Western World in May 1950, shot to the top of
the leading best seller lists and has stayed there. It still sells more
copies around the world than the average best seller in any given year.

    Stored in the reactive mind are engrams, and here we find the single
source of aberrations and psychosomatic ills.

    An ~engram~ is a mental image picture of an experience containing
pain, unconsciousness, and a real or fancied threat to survival. It
is a recording in the reactive mind of something which actually happened
to an individual in the past and which contained pain and
unconsciousness, both of which are recorded in the mental image
picture called an engram. It must, by definition, have impact or injury
as part of its content.

    These engrams are a complete recording, down to the last accurate
detail, of every perception present in a moment of partial or full
unconsciousness.

    The reactive mind comprises an unknowing, unwanted series of
aberrated computations which bring about an effect

                v

upon the individual and those around him. It is an obsessive strata of
unknown, unseen, uninspected data which are forcing solutions, unknown
and unsuspected on the individual which tells you why it remained hidden
from Man for so many thousands of years.

    In the thousands of years before 1950 there were many philosophers
and much knowledge was gathered in the field of mathematics,
electronics and the material sciences.

    However, due to idealogies and political conflicts, little of this
prior knowledge was ever applied to the field of the human mind.

    The scientific idea of regarding as a truth only that which could be
demonstrated with a result was never really applied to the mind.

    "Researchers" in this field were not fully trained in mathematics,
the scientific method or logic. They were interested mainly in their
own private ideas and in political targets.

    Man has used mental knowledge in the past mainly for control,
politics and propaganda.

    Various forms of "mental therapy" were in existence before
Dianetics.

    Psychology and psychiatry were developed chiefly by a Russian
veterinarian named Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849-1936). His basic
principle was that men were only animals and could be conditioned and
trained much like dancing bears or dogs.

    This work was intended only to CONTROL people and so has found great
favor with certain rulers and upper classes. None of the activities of
psychology or psychiatry were designed to help or cure, only to control
the masses.

    The Western nations overlooked the fact that this work had already
destroyed several countries (including Czarist Russia) and that Stalin
had made Pavlov write up his work in the Kremlin in 1928 in order to
permit the control of men.

    The subject of psychology began its texts by saying they did not
know what the word meant. So the subject itself never arrived.
Professor Wundt of Leipzig University in 1879 perverted the term.
It really means just "a study (ology) of the soul (psyche)."
But Wundt, working under the

                vi

eye of Bismarck, the greatest of German military fascists at the height
of German war ambitions, had to deny Man had a soul. So there went the
whole subject! Men were thereafter animals (it is all right to kill
animals) and Man had no soul, so the word psychology could no longer be
defined.

    The West at that time was run by only the "very best people" and
possibly it pleased them greatly to think that the masses they
controlled were only animals after all. That this also made them animals
did not occur to them.

    Using the mental studies of an enemy is a very dangerous thing to
do.

    Psychoanalysis was developed by an Austrian Jew, Sigmund Freud
(1856-1939). His occasional successes served to point out that there was
a possibility of solving psychosomatic illness through addressing the
mind. His concentration on sex gave psychoanalysis considerable
popularity.

    The results of psychiatry are physically damaging, consisting of
various brutalities and often injure the patient for life or kill him
outright. There have never been any cures listed or claimed for
psychiatric treatment as its interest lies only in control.

    Psychology is mainly used for testing aptitude or intelligence. It
has counseling as part of its activities but it is more concerned with
and financed for warfare.

    Psychoanalysis requires about five years for an uncertain result.

    Dianetics requires only a matter of hours and only helps and does
not injure anyone. It costs about $50 an hour in the US. (The Hubbard
Standard Dianetics Course, which includes all the Dianetic counseling a
student wants from other competent students at no additional charge,
costs only $500 total in the US.)

    The two subjects, psychology and psychiatry, have bitterly contested
any healing subject and use public media, governments and rumor to
forward population control. This action has often made it difficult to
bring bonafide mental health to the people.

    In some areas, mainly the US, it was illegal to heal or cure
anything. There was even a law in California giving 25

                vii

illnesses that were against the law to cure. The "Better" Business
Bureau in the US even issued pamphlets that state, "You can always tell
a fake healer because he says he can cure something."

    Why a civilization would make it illegal to cure illness can only be
explained by some vested interest making more money out of people being
sick than getting people well.

    Man should not be kept ill just to let a few have a monopoly.

    In almost all other countries than the US there is no restriction on
healing despite monopolistic efforts to make one.

    There is no quarrel between Dianetics and general practitioners of
the medical profession. They both have the same purpose (to make
people well) and are not political. It is freely admitted in Dianetics
that physical illness that can be effectively treated medically should
be so treated. Spiritual counseling will not set a broken leg or deliver
a baby. But it can help get the leg healed in two weeks instead of
the usual six and after-effects of childbirth do not exist when
Dianetic counseling is also used.

    Dianetics refuses to be a revolutionary activity. It does not have
to be. All it has as a mission is to get itself ~applied~.

    The basic building block of a society is the individual. From
individuals, groups are built. And this is the society. No society is
better than its basic building blocks.

    Men are ~not~ animals.

    Well men are sane men.

    Dianetics, if applied to individuals in the society, brings hope and
well and sane beings.

    These well and sane beings, sent on to Scientology, then become
brilliant and very able beings.

    We are evolving Man to a higher state.

    In this state he can better handle his problems.

    We are not trying to overthrow anyone. We are not revolting against
anyone. In truth we can even make the fancied "very best people" into
actual very best people.

    Man is being subjected to fantastic and violent efforts to lure or
crush him into docility. This is the obvious end

                viii

product of Russian and East European technologies now heavily financed
and supported, unwittingly, by Western governments.

    Man's response to this is riots and civil disorder in universities,
unions and streets.

    Man does not accurately trace the source of oppression. He is
violently worried.

    The government response is more millions to psychologists and
psychiatrists to develop new means of control and oppression. What has
not worked in the past is not likely to work in the present or the
future.

    Dianetics is not only the first mental science developed in the
West. It is the first mental science on the planet that uniformly
produces beneficial results.

    Dianetics has progressed from the pre-Dianetic period of no science
of the mind, to the existence of a real science of the mind, to a fast
accurate science simpler than any other scientific subject and of more
value to men.

    All this advance has been hard won, without government billions, in
the teeth of avalanches of lies and opposition.

    The subject owes no allegiance to anyone but itself. It has no
commitments to anyone. It has no politics. It belongs to those who use
it.

    The reason why Dianetics and Scientology were abused or even fought
has to do with what is called a "cultural lag."

    This has often occurred in the history of technical developments.

    An example is Dr. Semmelweis' discovery of the cause and cure of
childbed fever. For over half a century after that women still died in
agony after childbearing. Eventually the culture caught up to it and the
illness which had accounted for a huge percentage of female deaths
ceased to exist. Dr. Semmelweis' discovery of its prevention was "ahead
of its time." Pathetically scoffed and disbelieved, he even died to
prove he was right.

    The radio telephone was invented and demonstrated half a century
before it was generally used.

    Cultural lag occurs for many reasons.

                ix

    In any field as retarded as the human sciences the emergence of
Dianetics and Scientology, full and workable and complete is startling.
And thereby subject to disbelief.

    This does not mean they aren't used and useful.

    It is significant that hundreds of aerospace technicians, working
with satellites and rocketry broadly used Scientology first. At the same
time parliaments in some socially backward countries were busy passing
laws against Scientology to protect their psychiatrists whose medieval
approach was to seize people without any process of law and castrate
them and saw out brains as a "cure" for mental illness.

    In a world where governments are fighting to dominate men's minds,
mental technology is needed to protect the individual and to prevent the
enslavement of all.

    So Dianetics and Scientology may be a century ahead of their times
but still they are just in time before we all go up in smoke.

    Dianetics is the first practical workable easily taught technology
of the mind. It has endured already twenty-four years and is better
and more used than ever before. **


                BOOK ONE

                CHAPTER 1

                BECOME AN AUDITOR

    Auditing is the application of Dianetic and Scientology processes
and procedures to someone by a trained auditor.

    An auditor is one who listens carefully to what people have to say
and is one who is trained and qualified in applying Dianetic and
Scientology processes to others for their betterment.

    A process is a set of questions asked by an auditor to help a person
find out things about himself and life and so improve himself and his
life and the conditions around him. Therefore a more exact definition of
auditing (also called processing) would be the action of asking a
preclear a question (which he can understand and answer), getting an
answer to that question and acknowledging him for that answer.

    A preclear is a term principally used to describe a person who,
through Dianetic and Scientology processing, is finding out more
about himself and life.

                2 BOOK ONE

    Auditing gets rid of unwanted barriers that inhibit, stop or blunt a
person's natural intelligence and abilities--as well as gradiently
increasing the abilities a person has so that he becomes more able and
his survival, happiness and intelligence increase enormously.

    To be an auditor you only have to be willing to guide a person's
attention to an area in life that is bothering him by asking him an
exact auditing question, and then be willing to listen attentively to
the person's answer and then be willing to accept that answer and
acknowledge him for that answer.

    In doing this you must be willing to follow a code or a collection
of rules (do's and don'ts) that an auditor follows while auditing
someone. This will ensure that the preclear will get the greatest
possible gain out of the processing that he is having, and that
~nothing~ can occur that will worsen the preclear.

    Every now and again somebody tries to get me to say what I think of
auditors. Well, I had better make a public utterance.

    I think of auditors in a rather intense way. As I know more auditors
than anybody else and have a better basis for judgment, on this subject
I can be for once an authority.

    My opinion of auditors in general is fairly well known to several
people.

    I think of an auditor as a person with enough guts to DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT. This quality is rare and this quality is courageous in the
extreme.

    It is my opinion and knowledge that auditors are amongst the upper
tenth of the upper twentieth of intelligent human beings. Their will to
do, their motives, their ability to grasp and to use is superior to that
of any other profession.

    I think of an auditor as having INITIATIVE. He is able to grasp or
intend something and put it into action.

    Auditors survive better than other people.

    If this world has any faintest chance of surviving it will be not
because I write but because auditors can and will think and do.

                BECOME AN AUDITOR 3

    I think our auditors came from beings lately arrived on Earth who
seeing where it was going decided to band together to send it elsewhere.

    I consider all auditors my friends. I believe they have a right to
express themselves and their own opinions. I would not for a moment
hamper their right to think. I think of auditors and Scientologists* as
the Free People.

    Just as they consider one another their people so I consider them my
people.

    I think their errors of the past, when they existed, came about
because they were new and were finding out and I don't think any of
their errors were intentional.

    I don't expect auditors or Scientologists to instantly agree with or
seize upon whatever I say. I would be offended if they did and would
feel they weren't a Free People. Since they are intelligent I expect
them to think over what's said, try it and if it's good for them, use
it. That old auditors sooner or later come back to and use what I have
discovered isn't any testimony to our relationship at all, it's only a
testimony to my being right because I meant to be right in the first
place.

    I sorrow when I see somebody accomplishing less than he should
because he thinks I wouldn't approve of it. In churches and out I count
upon initiative and good judgment.

    The most decent people I have ever known have been auditors. The
best hearted people I know are auditors.

    No auditor should audit with the fear that he will do some
irreparable damage if he makes an error.

    ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~ provides the answer
to the question, "What happens if I make a mistake?"

    The following extracts are from ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of
Mental Health~, Book 3, Chapter 1, "The Mind's Protection":

    "The mind is a self-protecting mechanism. Short of the use of drugs
as in narcosynthesis, shock, hypnotism or surgery, no mistake can be
made by an auditor which cannot be remedied either by himself or by
another auditor.

                4 BOOK ONE

    "Any case, no matter how serious, no matter how unskilled the
auditor, is better opened than left closed."

    Auditing means to listen and compute and it also means to get a
result on a preclear, that is, someone who is not yet Clear. (A Clear
is a being who can be at cause knowingly and at will over mental
matter, energy, space and time as regards survival for self.)
Successful attainment of Dianetic results requires auditing that is done
in a technical and professional manner which has not departed from
standard procedure.

    A Scientologist is trying to make people better and that's a new
idea in the whole field of the human mind. Our situation doesn't compare
to therapies and other things, such as torture and imprisonment, which
have passed for mental therapy down through the ages. The goals
of Scientology predate all ideas of "therapy" and are found first in
religion and philosophy as long as 10,000 years ago.

    Clearing someone is erasing his reactive mind. All the misery Man
has is contained in the reactive mind. We are not concerned with
social behavior. Auditing is not social criticism. Psychotherapies are
involved in social criticism. Psychiatrists exist for the "good of the
society." Legislatures are interested in the "sick" and "insane." We are
not. We work in a very much older field. We know how a preclear behaves.
We know how human beings work but we don't care much about that. Good
or bad behavior is all by definition. If you kill a man it is good or
bad by definition. If you kill him in war or by sentencing him in court
that's good. But if you kill him just one inch outside the letter of the
law that's bad. There is a morass of social behavior you can get
interested in if you want, but don't mix it up with auditing.

    There is a certain road out. Dianetics and Scientology are the way,
they are the road out; the road away from reactivity, away from
aberration*, away from identifying everything with everything else. It
increases a person's abilities, it increases his general performance and
existence to a fantastic degree that can be precisely measured and
experienced.

                BECOME AN AUDITOR 5

    Anybody who wants to help his fellow man can become an auditor.

    An auditor is essentially a technician. Existing techniques are
tools. Any tool requires intelligent handling and a deftness in
application. To use any tool, whether it be a stone axe or a Geiger
counter, a person must acquire confidence in himself, in his tools,
in his attitude toward the preclear and in the results he means and
determines to achieve.

    When you, as an auditor, accomplish your mission with a single
preclear, you increase your confidence and your general ability.

    Sometime between the first moment you decide to be an auditor and
your first major success, you have question marks. You have lots of
question marks. But you have to start somewhere. Even a trapeze artist
had to start somewhere. Now for anybody who wants to be an auditor, the
thing for him to do is start--and just face bluntly the fact that he's
going to make mistakes, and maybe fall flat on his face and then all of
a sudden he's going to be auditing with the greatest of ease.

    As an auditor, you can do something about life. You can confront* it
and have a much wider, broader view of life and people.

    Today, the mysteries of life are not, with Dianetics and
Scientology, mysterious. We're using the technology for which Man, even
in his cruelty and blindness, searched for eons. And we must get it out
and use it. What we have got to face up to now is the fact that our
expansion will be an accelerating expansion. So it's my responsibility
to make the best auditors I can make.

    We have learned a tremendous amount about auditing. Today, we have
the technical materials. We are making our way, all the way. Now we must
not stop. It is time Man grew up. That is what we have in mind. You know
we are a potent force on Earth. Indeed the only force that is doing
something about it. We weren't effectively prevented from attaining our
knowledge--the hard part of the journey. Now we cannot be prevented from
applying it. We can take the

                6 BOOK ONE

individual and raise him. Thus we can raise the whole. So there is a
mission for you as an auditor.

    Auditors have, since the first session been the only individuals on
this planet, in this universe, capable of freeing Man.

    At times, some will forget or choose to ignore the fact that the
auditor is not just another fellow or a guy who works in Dianetics and
Scientology. An auditor is a highly trained specialist, no matter what
level of auditor. He or she is the only one who can give Man the truth
that Man knows.

    An auditor is to be respected. An auditor is very important in
Clearing this planet and this universe.

    It's a big job and the auditor will do it.

    All auditors are appreciated.


                CHAPTER 2

                HOW TO STUDY
                DIANETICS

    The first thing that a Dianetic auditor has to find out for himself
and then recognize is that he is dealing with precision tools. It isn't
up to someone else to force this piece of information on him. The whole
subject of Dianetic auditing, as far as the auditor is concerned, is
good or bad in direct ratio to his knowledge of his tools. It is up to
an individual to find out how precise these tools are. He should find
out for himself whether or not the mechanics of this technique are in
existence, and whether or not this technique adequately handles the
mechanics.

    He should make up his own mind about the mental phenomena he is
studying. Do they exist? There are two ways to answer this to his own
satisfaction: find them in a preclear or find them in himself. These are
fundamentals, and every auditor should undertake to discover them
himself, thus raising Dianetics above an authoritarian category. It is
not sufficient that a supervisor* stand before him and declare their
existence. Each and every auditor must determine for himself whether or
not the statement is true.

                8 BOOK ONE

    In the field of medicine some "authorities" declare that multiple
sclerosis is the decay of nerve fibers, and that it is incurable, and
that people who contract the "disease" die in a relatively short period
of time. It must be answered in just this way on the examination paper
or the student will find himself with less than a passing grade. This is
not instruction--this is obstruction. In the first place it is curable,
and in the second place it is not fatal. A good instructor would expect
his students to question such a statement, and to find for themselves
what can be done about multiple sclerosis.

    There are two ways men ordinarily accept things, neither of them
very good. One is to accept a statement because authority says it is
true and must be accepted, and the other is by preponderance of
agreement amongst other people.

     Preponderance of agreement is all too often the general public test
for sanity or insanity. Suppose someone were to walk into a crowded room
and suddenly point to the ceiling, saying, "Oh, look! There's a huge,
twelve-foot spider on the ceiling!" Everyone would look up, but no one
else would see the spider. Finally someone would tell him so. "Oh yes
there is," he would declare and become very angry when he found that no
one would agree with him. If he continued to declare his belief in the
existence of the spider he would very soon find himself
institutionalized. The basic definition of sanity in this somewhat
nebulously learned society is whether or not a person agrees with
everyone else. It is a very sloppy manner of accepting evidence, but all
too often it is the primary measuring stick.

    And then the Rule of Authority: "Does Dr. J. Doe agree with your
proposition? No? Then, of course, it cannot be true. Dr. Doe is an
eminent authority in the field."

    A man by the name of Galen at one time dominated the field of
medicine. Another by the name of Harvey upset Galen's cozy position with
a new theory of blood circulation. Galen had been agreeing with the
people of his day concerning the "tides" of the blood. They knew nothing
about heart action. They accepted everything they had been taught and
did little observing of their own. Harvey found

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 9

by animal vivisection the actual function of the heart. He had the good
sense to keep his findings absolutely quiet for a while. Leonardo da
Vinci had somehow discovered or postulated the same thing, but he was a
"crazy artist" and no one would believe an artist. Harvey was a member
of the audience of a play by Shakespeare in which the playwright made
the same observation, but again the feeling that artists never
contribute anything to society blocked anyone but Harvey from
considering the statement as anything more than fiction.

    Finally, Harvey made his announcement. Immediately dead cats, rotten
fruit and pieces of wine jugs were hurled in his direction. He raised
quite a commotion in medical and social circles until finally, in
desperation, one doctor made the historical statement that "I would
rather err with Galen than be right with Harvey!"

    Man would have made an advance of exactly zero if this had always
been the only method of testing evidence. But every so often during
Man's progress there have been rebels who were not satisfied with
preponderance of opinion, and who tested a fact for themselves,
observing and accepting the data of their observation, and then testing
again. Possibly the first man who made a flint axe looked over a piece
of flint and decided that the irregular stone could be chipped a certain
way. When he found that flint would chip easily he must have rushed to
his tribe and enthusiastically tried to teach his fellow tribesmen how
to make axes in the shape they desired instead of spending months
searching for accidental pieces of stone of just the right shape. The
chances are he was stoned out of camp. Indulging in a further flight of
fancy, it is not difficult to imagine that he finally managed to
convince another fellow that his technique worked, and that the two of
them tied down a third with a piece of vine and forced him to watch them
chip a flint axe from a rough stone. Finally, after convincing fifteen
or twenty tribesmen by forceful demonstration, the followers of the new
technique declared war on the rest of the tribe and, winning, forced the
tribe to agree by decree.

                10 BOOK ONE


¤Evaluation of Data¤


    Man has never known very much about that with which his mind is
chiefly filled: data. What is data? What is the evaluation of data? For
instance, if you have been in Dianetics very long the chances are that
someone has glibly told you that he knew from psychoanalysis that if one
could remember childhood experiences one could be relieved of certain
psychosomatic pains. His conclusion from this tiny scrap of information
was that Dianetics is not new. In 1884 when Breuer first presented this
tiny fact to Freud, he was unable to convince the eminent Doctor, but he
managed to convince Freud in the next ten years. Then Freud convinced
his literary agents. Medicine then fought Freud to a standstill, but
eventually psychoanalysis emerged from the imbroglio.

    All these years in which psychoanalysis has taught its tenets to
each generation of doctors, the authoritarian method was used, as can be
verified by reading a few of the books on the subject. Within them is
found, interminably, "Freud said. . . ." The truly important thing is
not that Freud said a thing, but "Is the data valuable? And if it is
valuable, how valuable is it?" You might say that a datum is as valuable
as it has been evaluated. A datum can be proved in ratio to whether it
can be evaluated by other data, and its magnitude is established by how
many other data it clarifies. Thus, the biggest datum possible would be
one which would clarify and identify all knowledge known to Man in the
material universe.

    Unfortunately, however, there is no such thing as a prime datum.
There must be not one datum, but two data, since a datum is of no use
unless it can be evaluated. Furthermore, there must be a datum of
similar magnitude with which to evaluate any given datum. You cannot
evaluate a mountain by comparing it to a grain of sand.

    Man has always evaluated data to a certain point, and then said,
"From here on is God." Strangely enough, with the passing of time and
the acquisition of new data with which to evaluate, the line of
demarcation between material knowledge and God was pushed further and
further back,

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 11

and today is being pushed even further back. Actually, in order
to conceive God, Man had to have a datum of comparable
magnitude--and thus the "Devil."

    Data is your data only so long as you have evaluated it. It is your
data by authority or it is your data. If it is your data by authority
somebody has forced it upon you, and at best it is little more than a
light aberration. Of course, if you asked a question of a man whom you
thought knew his business and he gave you his answer, that datum was not
forced upon you. But if you went away from him believing from then on
that such a datum existed without taking the trouble to investigate the
answer for yourself--without comparing it to the known universe--you
were falling short of completing the cycle of learning.

    Mechanically, the major thing wrong with the mind of course, the
turbulence of the physical pain recorded in it, but the overburden of
information in this society is enforced education that the individual
has never been permitted to test. Literally, when you are told not to
take anyone's word as an absolute datum you are being asked to break a
habit pattern forced upon you when you were a child. Your supervisor in
Dianetics can tell you what he has found to be true and invite you to
test it for yourself, but unless you ~test it~ you very likely will not
have the fundamentals of Dianetics in mind well enough to be comfortable
in the use of any or all of the techniques available to you. This is why
theory is so heavily stressed in Dianetics. The supervisor can tell you
what he has found to be true and what others have found to be true, but
at no time should he ask you to accept it--please allow a plea
otherwise. Test it for yourself and convince yourself whether or not it
exists as truth. And if you find that it does exist, you will be
comfortable thereafter; otherwise, unrecognized even by yourself you
are likely to find, down at the bottom of your information and
education, an unresolved question which will itself undermine your
ability to assimilate or practice anything in the line of a technique.
Your mind will not be as facile on the subject as it should be. It is
not through courtesy that you are being asked to check your data--you
are being asked to

                12 BOOK ONE

become good auditors by resolving your basic and fundamental concepts.

    Any quarrel you may have with theory is something that only you can
resolve. Is the theory correct, or isn't it correct? Only you can answer
that; it cannot be answered for you. You can be told what other auditors
have achieved in the way of results, and what other auditors have
observed, but you cannot become truly educated until you have achieved
the results for yourself. The moment a man opens his mouth and asks,
"Where is validation?" that man is saying, bluntly and abruptly, "I
cannot think for myself. I have to have authority." Where could he
possibly look for validation except into himself, the physical universe,
and into his own subjective and objective reality?*


¤A Look At The Sciences¤


    Unfortunately, Dianetics is surrounded by a world that calls itself
a world of science, but it is a world that is in actuality a world of
authority. True, that which is science today is far, far in advance of
the Hindu concept of the world wherein a hemisphere rested on the backs
of seven elephants which stood on seven pillars, that stood on the back
of a mud turtle, below which was mud into infinity.

    The reason engineering and physics have reached out so far in
advance of other sciences is the fact that they pose problems which
punish Man violently if he doesn't look carefully into the physical
universe. An engineer is faced with the problem of drilling a tunnel
through a mountain for a railroad. Tracks are laid up to the mountain on
either side. If he judges space wrongly the two tunnel entrances would
fail to meet on the same level in the center. It would be so evident to
one and all concerned that the engineer had made a mistake that he takes
great care not to make such a mistake. He observes the physical
universe, not only to the extent that the tunnel must meet to a fraction
of an inch, but to the extent that if he were to misjudge wrongly the
character of the rock through which he drills, the tunnel would cave
in--an incident which would be considered a very unlucky and
unfortunate occurrence to railroading.

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 13

    Biology comes closer to being a science than some others because in
the field of biology, if someone makes too big a mistake about a "bug"
the immediate result can be dramatic and terrifying. Suppose a biologist
is charged with the responsibility of injecting plankton into a water
reservoir. Plankton are microscopic "germs" that are very useful to man.
But if through some mistake the biologist injects typhoid germs into the
water supply there would be an immediate and dramatic result.

    Suppose a biologist is presented with the task of producing a
culture of yeast which would, when placed in white bread dough, stain
the bread brown. This man is up against the necessity of creating a
yeast which not only behaves as yeast but makes a dye as well. He has to
deal with the practical aspect of the problem, because after he
announces his success there is still the "yeast test": Is the bread
edible? And the brown bread test: Is the bread brown? Anyone could
easily make the test, and everyone would know very quickly whether or
not the biologist had succeeded or failed.

    Politics is called a science. The punishment for a mistake in the
"science" of politics is so tremendous that this whole culture is on the
verge of being wiped out! There are natural laws about politics. They
could be worked out if someone were to actually apply a scientific basis
to political research.

    For instance, it is a foregone conclusion that if all communications
lines are cut between the United States and Russia, Russia and the
United States are going to understand each other less and less. Then by
demonstrating to everyone how the American way of life and the Russian
way of life are different, and by demonstrating it day after day, year
after year, there is no alternative but a break of affinity. By stating
flatly that Russia and the United States are not in agreement on any
slightest political theory or conduct of man or nations, the job is
practically complete. Both nations will go into anger and suddenly there
is war.

    Russia is very, very low on the tone scale. She is a totalitarian
slave state and about as safe to have in the

                14 BOOK ONE

family of nations as a mad dog at a cocktail party. America as a nation
could be very, very clever--it could try to put Russia back together
again. It is a nation possessed of the greatest communications networks
on the face of the earth, with an undreamed of manufacturing potential.
She has within her borders the best advertising men in the world. But
instead of selling Europe an idea we give machine guns, planes and tanks
for use in case Russia breaks out. The more threats imposed against a
country in Russia's tone level, the more dangerous that country will
become. When people are asked what they would do about this grave
question, they shrug and say something to the effect that "the
politicians know best." They hedge and rationalize by saying that after
all, there is the American way of life, and it must be protected.

    What is the American way of life? This is a question that will stop
almost any American. What is the American way of life that is different
from the human way of life? We have tried to gather together economic
freedom for the individual, freedom of the press, individual freedom,
and define them as a strictly American way of life--why hasn't it been
called the human way of life?

    America is faced with an Asia which is awakening. Japan, having been
induced to become a modern industrial nation, branched out into Asia
with her ideas of freedom for the individual. She sold other backward
nations on the idea that Japan could free them from the yoke of the
white man, even though she realized that she was committing suicide by
so doing. To quote from some political propaganda distributed in these
countries by Japan, "You will cry for us when we are gone. But we have
freed you. Don't ever forget it, and don't forget us." Japan's
missionaries knew that Japan would go under when it came to a contest
between her country and the Western world, but the seed she sowed is far
from dead.

    We, in the persons of Perry and others who sailed their ships into
Asia, gave Asia the spark of freedom. Japan accepted the teaching and
committed national suicide by attempting imperial expansion, involving
us in a very long and terrible war. We cannot but wonder and sometimes

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 15

become confused, nor can we blame the Asiatics for a tiny bit of
confusion now and then concerning the intentions of the Western world,
when we try to fathom the actual nature of our political foreign policy.
Do we, or do we not, desire democratic principles and the "American" way
of life for the Asiatic peoples?

    Consider the U.S. support of China's totalitarian regime headed by
Chiang Kai-shek. While America weakly spoke of freeing the Chinese from
the yoke of imperialism they poured huge sums of money and war material
into the hands of a government which practiced the very principles
America spoke against! When that government finally fell there was no
one ready to teach the Chinese the human way of life. If we had only
sent out a few missionaries with a desire for these people's freedom in
their hearts saying, "Now if you would like to have radios, and
automobiles, and safety razors, this is how you go about it . . ."
things might have been different today. We had no one there, and even if
we had our support of the fallen government would have been ample proof
to the people that we did not have their interests at heart. But
somebody was there. Somebody was there with a propaganda aimed directly
into the desires of the people who want just a tiny taste of freedom.
Russian agents were there. "You are all comrades," they shouted over
loudspeakers and in public markets. "The way to freedom and equality is
to shoot all the landlords and divide the land so that each of you has
an equal share." So Russia is first with the most, and we complain
because she takes over!

    In the field of humanities science has been thoroughly adrift.
Unquestioned authoritarian principles have been followed. Any person who
accepts knowledge without questioning it and evaluating it for himself
is demonstrating himself to be in apathy toward that sphere of
knowledge. It demonstrates that the people in the United States today
must be in a low state of apathy with regard to politics in order to
accept without question everything that happens.


¤Fundamentals¤


    When a man tries to erect the plans of a lifetime or a profession on
data which he himself has never evaluated, he

                16 BOOK ONE

cannot possibly succeed. Fundamentals are very, very important, but
first of all one must learn how to think in order to be absolutely sure
of a fundamental. Thinking is not particularly hard to learn; it
consists merely of comparing a particular datum with the physical
universe as it is known and observed.

    How, for instance, would you find out for your own satisfaction that
there exists such a thing as an "engram" (a mental image picture* of a
moment of pain and unconsciousness)? Find a person who is also
interested in verifying such existence and run through an engram, or
have someone take you through an engram. Your supervisor in Dianetics
has done this a sufficient number of times and has seen it done to
others a sufficient number of times to satisfy himself that an engram
exists. But just because it exists for him and he informs you of his
knowledge does not mean that it exists for you. Unless you have made up
your mind through comparison of the information with the known universe,
you will not be able to handle engrams properly. When there is an
authoritarian basis for your education you are not truly educated.

    Authoritarianism is little more than a form of hypnotism. Learning
is forced under threat of some form of punishment. A student is
stuffed with data which has not been individually evaluated just as
a taxidermist would stuff a snake. Such a student will be well-informed
and well-educated according to present-day standards, but unfortunately
he will not be very successful in his chosen profession.

    Indecision underlies an authoritarian statement. Do not allow your
Dianetic education to lie on the quicksand of indecision.

    Your supervisor and the author of this book declare that an engram
exists. Unless you have looked into the matter for yourself--unless you
actually run a person into an engram--the realization that physical pain
can be stored and can be recovered, and that all perceptions are
registered during these moments of unconsciousness, will not be yours.
Your knowledge concerning the engram depends exclusively upon what
~you~ have observed about that engram.

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 17

    There have been volumes of articles written about the technique of
auditing engrams. Make up your mind whether or not it works out for you.

    First of all, find out to your own satisfaction whether or not there
is an engram in existence. Then determine whether or not the technique
in question will discover the engram for you, and whether or not the
technique really handles the engram. Having made certain that there is
an engram, ask yourself what kind of technique you would evolve if you
decided to do something about this object, the engram? How would you go
about it? Unless you have asked yourself this question and tried to come
to a definite conclusion about it, you will never come into agreement on
the technique of auditing engrams! You will be performing an
authoritarian rote. You can learn how to handle an engram by rote, but
unless you decide from your own observation that there is an engram to
be handled you will be simply performing some ritual in which a mistake
is very easy to make. About the worst thing that could happen to a
preclear is to drop into something and then feel that the auditor is
thinking, "Now let's see--it was page 62 . . . or was it 63 . . . ? and
the question was . . ." while the person lies there, suffering and
thinking, "Do something! Say something!" An auditor who is auditing by
rote will make mistakes like that because he does not have the basic
fundamentals as a part of his background of training.

    A truly good auditor doesn't have to think twice. When the basic
fundamentals are securely the auditor's own there is no need for him to
be told what has to be done.

    You are asked to examine the subject of Dianetics on a critical
basis--a very critical basis. It is not to be examined with the attitude
that when you were in school you learned that such and such was true,
and since you learned that first, the first learning takes precedence. A
prime example of this is the literary critic who says, after reviewing a
book, that the book is not a novel because it is a not a cross-section
of life. He learned in some seminar or other that a novel ~had~ to be a
cross-section of life. His professor in literature gave him a passing
grade because he answered the question "correctly" on his examination
paper, and therefore a book

                18 BOOK ONE

is not a novel unless it is a cross-section of life. There is yet to
appear a good definition for aesthetics and yet they parrot a definition
for a specific form of art!

    Do not make the mistake of criticizing something on the basis of
whether or not it concurs with the opinions of someone else. The point
which is pertinent is whether or not it concurs with ~your~ opinion.
Does it agree with what ~you~ think?

    Nearly everyone has done some manner of observing of the material
universe. No one has seen all there is to see about an organism, but
there is certainly no dearth of organisms available for further study.
There is no valid reason for accepting the opinion of Professor Blotz of
the Blitz University who said in 1933 that schizophrenics were
schizophrenics, and that made them schizophrenics for all time.

    If you are interested in the manifestations of insanity, there is
any and every form of insanity that you could hope to see in a lifetime
in almost any part of the world. Study the peculiarities of the people
around you and wonder what they would be like if their little
peculiarities were magnified a hundredfold. You may find that by listing
all the observable peculiarities you would have a complete list of all
the insanities in the world. This list might well be far more accurate
than that which was advanced by Kraepelin and used in the United States
today. If sanity is rationality and insanity is irrationality, and you
postulated how irrational people would be if certain of their obsessions
were magnified a hundredfold, you might well have in your possession a
far more accurate and complete list of insanities and their
manifestations than is currently in existence.

    If you will take the time and effort of making a complete
examination of your subject, then by observation, you will find that you
have suddenly become an excellent auditor. The hard way is to sit down
and memorize a third of a million words contained in ~Science of
Survival~[1] --the method all too many educational systems employ in
this age.

    Examine some of the theories in vogue, one of which is the belief
that sex is the prime motivation of life. After you have thought about
it for a while and compared it to the

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 19

known universe, you may find that someone has left out a factor or two
from his calculations. Consider the theory that pain is the prime
motivation of the human being. Ask yourself whether an organism keeps
pain or whether he associates things with pain. You may suddenly find
that you have extrapolated an engram. You might arrive at the engram
independently, and in doing so come up with some brand new workable
concepts.

    And then, having found the engram you begin to wonder how you can go
about getting rid of it. You hit upon a theory that by stretching time
from one-fifth of a second that it took to burn a preclear's finger to a
full minute, the event can be assimilated analytically, and suddenly you
have discovered something for yourself. And in so doing you might well
discover a lot more. What you are doing in Dianetics--the techniques,
the theories and postulates--are highly workable, but they are not
highly workable because the author says so!

    Compare what you learn with the known universe. Seek for the reasons
behind a manifestation, and postulate the manner and in which direction
the manifestation will likely proceed. Do not allow the authority of any
one person or school of thought to create a foregone conclusion within
your sphere of knowledge. Only with these principles of education in
mind can you become a truly educated individual.


¤The Intention of the Student¤


    The state of mind with which a person approaches study will
determine the results that person gets from the study.

    The individual ~must~ determine what he is going to do with the
materials he is studying. He ~must~ determine what he is going to do
with the information he is absorbing.

    If the intention is to study the materials so as to pass the exam he
will be very incapable of doing anything with the subject once the exam
is over. He might be a great theoretician, but he will not be able to
use the subject.

    Some students don't have any intention other than getting through
the course. They are just there studying away. They balk at doing
demonstrations or looking up
----------------------------------

[1] See footnote--page 36.

                20 BOOK ONE

words for their exact meaning. Even when forced to demonstrate something
they maintain the attitude that it has nothing to do with them. "It's
all very interesting to read but . . ."

    Noninvolvement is the primary barrier in the ability to apply
materials.

    There can be many reasons for study; points, exams, status, speed,
glory, whatever.

    There is only one valid reason! Studying for understanding,
application and practice.

    A student is one who studies. He is an attentive and systematic
observer. A student is one who reads in detail in order to learn and
then ~apply~.

    As a student studies he knows that his purpose is to understand the
materials he is studying by reading, observing and demonstrating so as
to ~apply~ them to a specific result.

    He connects what he is studying to what he will be ~doing~.

    A person can be hung up on the all-importance and everything-ness of
a subject. He is so nervous of dire consequences that he will eventually
have an accident. People are often thoroughly educated into this
attitude. It is all so important it will kill him if he doesn't know.
This inhibits his power of choice and ability to evaluate data.
Education today is taught by consequence, not by the fact it is a
sensible thing to do. In the world, importance essentially means
punishment.

    To teach someone a subject just have him select out the
unimportances of the subject. He will start to think everything is
important but coax him on with affinity, reality, communication and good
control and he will eventually come up with something unimportant, that
is, you are teaching him how to drive a tractor. He will find the coat
of paint on the crank unimportant. You acknowledge and ask him to find
something else unimportant. Keep at this repeating it and repeating it
and eventually "allness" will start to disintegrate. He will select down
to the most important controls of the tractor and the next thing you
know he can drive a tractor! He won't have a craving to know anxiety

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 21

and won't be nervous at all. You are teaching by de-evaluation of
importance.

    It is interesting that a person who never selected out the
importances of Scientology or any subject, and who believes every datum
must be memorized, you will find, has a history of being punished within
an inch of his life. There is a direct co-ordination here.

Education is basically fixing data, unfixing data, and changing existing
data, either by making it more fixed or less fixed.

    This technology of using importances can undo to a marked extent a
very thorough "education" in some subject and return it to the power of
choice of an individual.


¤Nonapplication¤


    I first noticed the phenomenon of ~nonapplication~ on student
auditors. A student would get examined on the technical materials
completely. Then he would sit down to audit and do the action 180
degrees in reverse, completely opposite to what was supposed to be done.

    You see this in students who study and think the materials have
nothing to do with them. They signed up for the course but they are
there for some other reason than to study. They are not there to use the
materials.

    When you see this kind of phenomenon you are looking at three
things:

    1. Status

    2. Involvement

    3. Representation.

    Under ~status~ you might get a student who is studying because there
is prestige or rank involved. "I want to study this course so I can get
promoted to lieutenant," or "I can't wait to be a doctor so people will
look up to me finally."

    You see this in Spain where an engineer gets his degree in
engineering and never has to use it. It is a status symbol. They just
sit there and have a certificate.

    Under ~involvement~ you get fear of involvement and spectatorism.
The student is afraid to really get into the materials he is studying.

                22 BOOK ONE

    You see this in a resistance to do demonstrations in clay. You see
this in a reluctance to do the very basic training drills.* The student
is afraid to get involved. He becomes a spectator and not a student.

    Under ~representation~ you get people who represent themselves as
something when they are not. "I am a student," when the guy doesn't even
know what a student is and hasn't begun to apply the study data to
himself. Or "I am a Dianetic auditor," and the guy never uses Dianetic
auditing. He is really just a symbol.

    Any of the three add up to no doingness.

    These points when used can help a student locate what is preventing
him from applying the material he is studying to produce a desired
result.


¤Three Barriers To Study¤


    There are three different sets of physiological and mental reactions
that come from three different aspects of study. They are ~three~
different sets of symptoms.

    Education in the absence of the ~mass~ in which the technology will
be involved is very hard on the student.

    It makes him feel physiologically condensed. Actually makes him feel
squashed. Makes him feel bent, sort of spinny, sort of dead, bored,
exasperated.

    If he is studying the doingness of something in which the mass is
absent this will be the result.

    Photographs help and motion pictures would do pretty well as they
are a sort of promise or hope of the mass but the printed page and the
spoken word are not a substitute for a tractor if he's studying about
tractors.

    You have to understand this data in its purity: and that is that
educating a person in a mass that they don't have and which isn't
available produces physiological reactions. That is what I am trying to
teach you.

    It's just a fact.

    You're trying to teach this fellow all about tractors and you're not
giving him any tractors--well, he's going to wind up with a face that
feels squashed, with headaches and with his stomach feeling funny. He's
going to feel dizzy from time to time and very often his eyes are going
to hurt.

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 23

    It's a physiological datum that has to do with auditing and the
field of the mind.

    You could therefore expect the greatest incidence of suicide or
illness in that field of education devoted to studying absent masses.

    This one of studying the something without its mass ever being
around produces the most distinctly recognizable reactions.

    If a child felt sick in the field of study and it were traced back
to this one, the positive remedy would be to supply the mass--the object
or a reasonable substitute--and it would clear it up.

    There is another series of physiological phenomena that exist which
is based on the fact of too steep a study gradient.

    That's another source of physiological study reaction because of too
steep a gradient.

    It is a sort of a confusion or a reelingness that goes with this
one.

You've hit too steep a gradient.

    There was too much of a jump because he didn't understand what he
was doing and he jumped to the next thing and that was too steep and he
went too fast and he will ~assign~ all of his difficulties to this new
thing.

    Now differentiate here because ~gradients~ sounds terribly like the
third one of these study hang ups (definitions) but remember that they
are quite distinctly different.

    Gradients are more pronounced in the field of doingness but they
still hang over into the field of understanding. In gradients however it
is the ~actions~ we are interested in. We have a plotted course of
forward motion of actions. We find he was terribly confused on the
second action he was supposed to do. We must assume then that he never
really got out of the first one.

    The remedy for this one of too steep a gradient is cutting back.
Find out when he was not confused on the gradient, then what new action
he undertook to do. Find what action he understood well. Just before he
was all confused what did he understand well? And then we find out that
he didn't understand it well!

                24 BOOK ONE

    It's really at the tail end of what he understood and then he went
over the gradient you see.

    It is most recognizable and most applicable in the field of
doingness.

    That's the gradient barrier and one full set of phenomena
accompanies that.

    The third one is an entirely different set of physiological
reactions brought about through a by-passed definition. A by-passed
definition gives one a distinctly blank feeling or a washed-out feeling,
a not-there feeling and a sort of an hysteria will follow in the back of
that.

    The manifestation of "blow"* stems from this third aspect of study
which is the misunderstood definition or the not-comprehended
definition, ~the undefined word~.

    That's the one that produces the blow--an unauthorized departure
from an area.

    The person doesn't necessarily blow on these other two, they are not
pronouncedly blow phenomena. They are simply physiological phenomena.

    The misunderstood definition is so much more important. It's the
makeup of human relations, the mind and subjects. It establishes
aptitude and lack of aptitude and it is what psychologists have been
trying to test for years without recognizing what it was.

    It's the definition of words.

    The misunderstood word.

    That's all it goes back to and that produces such a vast panorama of
mental effects that it in itself is the prime factor involved with
stupidity and the prime factor involved with many other things.

    If a person didn't have misunderstoods his ~talent~ might or might
not be present but his ~doingness~ would be present.

    We can't say that Joe would paint as ~well~ as Bill if both were
unaberrated in the field of art, but we can say that the ~inability~ of
Joe to paint compared with the ~ability~ of Joe to do the motions of
painting is dependent exclusively and only upon definitions.

    There is some word in the field of art that the person who is inept
didn't define or understand and that is followed by an inability to act
in the field of the arts.

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 25

    That's very important because it tells you what happens to doingness
and that the restoration of doingness depends only upon the restoration
of understanding of the misunderstood word, misunderstood definition.

    This is very fast processing. There is a very swift, wide, big
result obtainable in this.

    It has a technology which is a very simple technology.

    It enters in at the lower levels because it has to. This doesn't
mean it is unimportant. It means it has to be at the entrance gates of
Dianetics and Scientology.

    It ~is a sweepingly fantastic discovery in the field of education
and don't neglect it~.

    You can trace back the subject a person is dumb in or any allied
subject that got mixed up with it. The psychologist doesn't understand
Scientology. He never understood a word in psychology so he doesn't
understand Scientology.

    Well, that opens the gate to education. Although I've given the
misunderstood definition last it is the most important one.

    The first phenomenon of a misunderstood word occurs when a student
misses understanding a word. The section right after that word is a
blank in his memory. You can always trace back to the word just before
the blank, get it understood and find miraculously that the former blank
area is not now blank. The above is pure magic.

    The second phenomenon occurs after the student has gone by many
misunderstood words. He begins to dislike the subject being studied more
and more. This is followed by various mental and physical conditions and
by various complaints, fault-finding and look-what-you-did-to-me. This
justifies a departure, a blow, from the subject being studied.

    But the system of education frowning on blows as it does, causes the
student to really withdraw self from the study subject (whatever he was
studying) and set up in its place a circuit (a part of an individual's
mind* that behaves as though it were someone or something separate from
him and either dictates or takes over his actions) which can receive and
give back sentences and phrases. We now have "the quick student who
somehow never applies what he learns."

                26 BOOK ONE

    The specific phenomenon then is that a student can study some words
and give them back and yet be no participant to the action. The student
gets A+ on exams but can't apply the data.

    ~Demonstration~ is the key here. The moment you ask this type of
student to ~demonstrate~ a rule or theory with his hands or the paper
clips on your desk this glibness will shatter.

    The reason for this is that in memorizing words or ideas, the
student can still hold the position that it has nothing to do with him
or her. It is a total circuit action. Therefore, very glib. The moment
you say "~Demonstrate~" that word or idea or principle, the student
~has~ to have something to do with it. And shatters.

    The thoroughly dull student is just stuck in the noncomprehended
blankness following some misunderstood word.

    The "very bright" student who yet can't use the data isn't there at
all. He has long since ceased to confront the subject matter or the
subject.

    The cure for either of these conditions of "bright noncomprehension"
or "dull" is to find the missing word.

    But these conditions can be prevented by not letting the student go
beyond the missed word without grasping its meaning. And that is the
~duty~ of the twin. The twin is the study partner with whom one is
paired. Two students studying the same subject who are paired to examine
or help each other are said to be "twinned."

    Whenever a person has a confused idea of something or believes there
is some conflict of ideas IT IS ALWAYS TRUE THAT A MISUNDERSTOOD WORD
EXISTS AT THE BOTTOM OF THAT CONFUSION.

    Example:

    Bill: "I just don't understand this idea of opposing forces. I think
it all ought to be rewritten and . . ."

    Joe: "Is there any word there you don't understand?"

    Bill: "Oh no, I understand all the words. It's . . ."

    Joe: "Let's look it up."

    Bill: "Oh no, I know what it means. It's the idea that . . ."

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 27

    Joe: "Let's look it up!"

    Bill: "Well all right. Let's see, D . . . E . . . F. . . FO . . .
FORCES. Here it is. 'That which changes the motion of a body on which it
acts."'

    Joe: "Use it in a sentence several times."

    Bill: (he does): ". . . er . . . ah. I've got it. Oh! I thought it
meant police brutality! Couldn't figure out why two police forces would
fight!"

    Joe: "Now how do you feel about this idea of opposing forces?"

    Bill: "Oh, let's see. Why that's clear enough. Just like I'd never
read it before!"

    Every green body of students will argue and fuss about ideas or
confusions in the directions or material they are given to read.

    They will generate weird ideas and erroneous concepts of what the
test says. They do wrong things and say the text said to. They ask
strange questions of their supervisors. They clamor for
"clarifications."

    AND AT THE BOTTOM OF ALL THIS IS SIMPLY MISUNDERSTOOD ~WORDS~.

    There is not ~also~ misunderstood ideas. There is ~only~ the
misunderstood ~word~ which breeds, then, huge towering wrong ~ideas~.


¤Simple Words¤


    You might suppose at once that it is the BIG words or the technical
words which are most misunderstood.

    This is NOT the case.

    On actual test, it was English simple words and NOT Dianetics and
Scientology words which prevented understanding.

    For some reason Dianetics and Scientology words are more easily
grasped than simple English words.

    Words like "a," "the," "exist," "such," and other "everybody knows"
words show up with great frequency.

    It takes a BIG dictionary to define these simple words fully. This
is another oddity. The small dictionaries also suppose everybody knows.

                28  BOOK ONE

[picture#02]

~A MISUNDERSTOOD WORD BREEDS STRANGE IDEAS~

Confused Concepts or Ideas of Material

Misunderstood ~Word~

PICTURE OF A STUDENT'S MIND

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 29

    It is almost incredible to see that a university graduate has gone
through years and years of study of complex subjects and yet does not
know what "or" or "by" or "an" means. It has to be seen to be believed.
Yet when cleaned up his whole education turns from a solid mass of
question marks to a clean useful view.

    A test of school children in Johannesburg once showed that
intelligence DECREASED with each new year of school!

    The answer to the puzzle was simply that each year they added a few
dozen more crushing misunderstood words onto an already confused
vocabulary that no one ever got them to look up.

    Stupidity ~is~ the effect of misunderstood words.

    In those areas which give Man the most trouble you will find the
most alteration of fact, the most confused and conflicting ideas and of
course the greatest number of misunderstood words. (Take "economics" for
example.)

    THE EARLIEST MISUNDERSTOOD WORD IN A SUBJECT IS A KEY TO LATER
MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS IN THAT SUBJECT.

    "HCOB" (Hubbard Communications Office Bulletin), "TR" (Training
Routine), "Issue I" (first issue of that date), are the commonest
misunderstoods because they occur at the beginning of technical
bulletins, and words like "a," "the" and other simple English are the
next.

    In studying a foreign language it is often found that the grammar
words of one's ~own~ language that tell about the grammar in the foreign
language are basic to not being able to learn the foreign language.

    That a person ~says~ he knows the meaning is ~not~ acceptable. Have
him look it up no matter how simple the word is.

    Even words a student misunderstands and looks up can yet remain
troublesome.

    It's this way: The student runs across a word he or she doesn't
understand. He or she looks it up in a dictionary, finds a substitute
word and uses that.

    Of course, the first word is still misunderstood and remains a
bother.

                30 BOOK ONE

    Example: (line in text) "The size was Gargantuan." Student looks up
Gargantuan, finds "Like Gargantua, huge." Student uses "huge" as a
synonym and reads the text line "The size was huge!" A short while later
is found still incapable of understanding the paragraph below
"Gargantuan" in the text. Conclusion the student makes: "Well, it
doesn't work."

    The principle is that one goes dull after passing over a word one
does not understand and brightens up the moment he spots the word that
wasn't grasped. In actual fact, the brightening up occurs whether one
defines the word or not.

    But to put ~another~ word in the place of the existing word is to
mess it all up.

    Take the above example. "Huge" is not "Gargantuan." These are
synonyms. The sentence is "The size was Gargantuan." The sentence was
~not~ "The size was huge." You can't really substitute one word for
another and get anything but an alteration. It just isn't what was said
or thought.

    The ~correct~ procedure is to look over, get defined well and
understand ~the~ word that was used.

    In this case the word is "Gargantuan." Very well, what's that? It
means "like Gargantua" according to the dictionary.

    ~Who~ or ~what~ is Gargantua? The dictionary says it is the name of
a gigantic king in a book written by the author Rabelais. "Cheers" the
student thinks, the sentence meant "The size was a gigantic king." Oops!
That's the same goof again, like "huge," but we're nearer.

    So what to do? Use Gargantuan in a few sentences you make up and
bingo! You suddenly understand ~the~ word that was used.

    Now you read it right. "The size was Gargantuan." And what does that
mean? It means "The size was Gargantuan." And ~nothing~ else.

    Get it?

    There's no hope for it. You'll have to learn real English, not the
six-hundred word basic English of the college kid, in which a few
synonyms are substituted for all the big words.

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 31

    A frequent and major error I have observed is the following
situation:

    Joe (or Examiner): "What does the word ~syncopated~
mean?"

    Bill: "What is the sentence it is in?"

    Joe: "Jazz music has a syncopated rhythm."

    Bill: "Oh, well, then that means jazz has an oom-pah
beat."

    Joe: "Okay."

    NOT OK!

    Why? Well, in the first place giving the student the sentence allows
the word "syncopated" (which the student does not understand on its own)
to be given meaning by the context and thus ~disguised as a
misunderstood~.

    Secondly he is rewording the sentence in different words so that one
cannot tell from his answer whether he knows what "syncopated" means or
not.

    So the following rules apply:

    YOU NEVER GIVE THE SENTENCE A WORD IS IN WHEN ASKING FOR ITS
DEFINITION.

    YOU ONLY ASK THE EXACT WORD YOU WANT A DEFINITION OF AND NOTHING
MORE.

    Proper examples of the above would be:

    Joe: "What does ~syncopated~ mean?"

    Bill: "What is the sentence it is in?"

    Joe: "Thank you. What does the word ~syncopated~ mean?"

    Bill: "Well, um, . . . I know I know it! . . ."

    Joe: "Let's look it up."

    Or another example:

    Joe: "What does ~syncopated~ mean?"

    Bill: "Well, ~syn~ means ~together~ and ~copate~ is from ~copare~
which means ~to cut~ so it means ~cut-together~. In music this occurs
when two normally separated notes are collapsed to make one longer
causing an emphasis to occur on the offbeat."

    Joe: "Very good."

    You sometimes come across a word which has more than one meaning of
course. Take the word "counsel" which

                32 BOOK ONE

has the meaning of advice but it is also the English term for
"attorney." Well, even here one can distinguish by asking either "What
is ~a counsel~," or "What does ~counsel~ mean?" If it was coun~cil~ one
would spell out the word for the student.

    In other words one would ~understand~ what one was trying to
achieve.

    In learning the meaning of words small dictionaries are very often a
greater liability than they are a help.

    The meanings they give are often circular: like "cat: an animal,"
"animal: a cat." They do not give enough meaning to escape the circle.

    The meanings given are often inadequate to get a real concept of the
word.

    The words are too few and even common words are often missing.

    HUGE dictionaries can also be confusing as the words they use to
define are often too big or too rare and make one chase through 20 new
words to get the meaning of the original.

    The best dictionaries are the very large child's dictionaries.

    Little pocketbook dictionaries may have their uses for traveling and
reading newspapers, but they ~do~ get people in trouble. I have seen
people find a word in them and then look around in total confusion. For
the dinky (small, insignificant) dictionary did not give the full
meaning or the second meaning they really needed.

    So the dinky dictionary may fit in your pocket but not in your mind.

    Words sometimes have different or more than one meaning. You have to
know every different meaning so all definitions are looked up and the
word is fully defined. You also must choose the definition in use in the
sentence so that the materials are understood.

    Many times when looking up a word, you will find in its definition
other words which need to be looked up in order to understand the
meaning of the original word. Therefore, each word given in the
definition must also be clearly defined and understood so that there are
no underlying

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 33

misunderstood words on the word you are looking up. Large child's
dictionaries are good as the definition words are simple.

    The smaller dictionaries (paperback or junior) seldom contain
complete definitions of a word. Sometimes a most vital part of a
definition is omitted. This can involve running around to look for
another dictionary or missing the real meaning of the word. So always
use a big enough dictionary. The dictionary usually has several examples
of use. These are not enough. The person has to make up several of his
own before he really knows the word.

    There are two kinds of foreign-language dictionaries. One is a
dictionary entirely in the foreign language. The other is the
English-foreign language dictionary, in which one half of the dictionary
is English words with the foreign word next to it, and the other half is
foreign words with its English counterpart next to it. You would use the
all-foreign language dictionary only with a person who knew that
language fluently.

    YOU USE A DICTIONARY. IT IS ALWAYS A MISUNDERSTOOD WORD,
NEVER A CONCEPT OR IDEA.

    The first requisite of any subject is the ability to confront the
various components (things) (parts) (divisions) of the subject itself.

    All misunderstoods, confusions, omissions, alterations of a subject
~begin~ with failures or unwillingness to confront.

    The difference between a good pilot and a bad pilot depends of
course on consistent study and practice, but underlying this,
determining whether the person ~will~ study and practice, is the ability
to confront the components of study and airplanes.

    A "quick student," by which is meant a student who learns rapidly or
a person who grasps a subject quickly, has a high ability to confront
that subject.

    In a dramatic profession, the wild animal trainer who could confront
wild animals remained alive. The one who couldn't confront was too slow
of perception to live long.

    In a more common line of work, the ~fast~ typist could confront
study and typing in the first place and the slow typist couldn't and
can't.

                34 BOOK ONE

    The confusions about "talent" and "native ability" and such are
resolved to no small extent when one recognizes the role played by the
ability to confront.

    Basically, if one can just be there with it, he can ~then~ achieve
the skill of communicating with whatever "it" is and handling it.

    Thus, before communicating with the components of a subject can
properly begin, one must be able to be there comfortably ~with~ the
components of the subject.

    All power depends upon the ability to hold a location. To
communicate one must be able to hold a location.

    This is even true in the physical universe. You can't move a chair
unless you can hold a position yourself near the chair. If you don't
believe it, try it.

    Thus the ability to communicate with ~precedes~ the ability to
handle. But before one can communicate with something one must be able
to ~be~ in a location near it.

    The age-old puzzle of how some scholars can get "A" on a subject
they have studied and then not be able to ~apply~ even a scrap of the
data is resolved by this fact of confronting. They can confront the
book, the class and the thought. But they haven't attained the ability
to confront the ~physical objects~ of the subject.

    At least such "glib" students can confront the book, the paper, the
thought. They are part way there.

    Now all they need to do is confront as well the physical things to
which the subject is applied and they would be able to apply what they
know.

    Some people are not so lucky as to be "glib" students. They have to
work up to "being there" with the book, paper, classroom and teacher.

    Thus "confronting" is actually the ability to be there comfortably
and perceive.

    Amazing reactions occur when conscious effort is made to do this.
Dullness, perception trouble, fogginess, sleep and even pains, emotions
and convulsions can occur when one knowingly sets out to BE THERE AND
COMFORTABLY PERCEIVE the various parts of a subject.

                HOW TO STUDY DIANETICS 35

    These reactions discharge and vanish as one perseveres (continues)
and at last, sometimes soon, sometimes after a long while, one ~can~ be
there and perceive the component.

    As one is able to confront one part he then finds it easier to
confront other components.

    People have mental tricks they use to get around actual
confronting--to be disinterested, to realize it's not important, to be
sort of half dead, etc.--but these discharge as well eventually and
at last they can just be there and comfortably perceive.

    Eye blinks, swallows, twitches, aches, pains, are all systems of
interrupting confronting and are the symptoms of discomfort. There are
many of these. If they are present then one is not just being there and
perceiving.

    Confronting on a via (using a relay point) is another method of
ducking out of it.

    The worst off cannot even tolerate the idea of being there and
perceiving anything. They run away, even go into emotional fits rather
than be there and perceive. Such people's lives are a system of
interruptions and vias, all substitutes for confronting. They are not
very successful. For success in life depends not on running away from it
but by being there and perceiving it and then being able to communicate
with it and handle it.

    "A gradient scale" means a gradual increasing condition, or a little
more of little by little.

    A "skipped gradient" means taking on a higher degree or amount
before a lesser degree of it has been handled. One has to go back and
handle the missed degree or thing or else one will have just losses on a
subject thereafter.

    "Flattening" something means to do it until it no longer produces a
reaction.

    "Overrunning" something means accumulating protests and upsets about
it until it is just a mass of stops. Anyone can do anything forever
unless he begins to stop it.

    "Invalidation" means a refuting or degrading or discrediting or
denying something someone else considers to be a fact.

                36 BOOK ONE

    Some of the things one would have to be able to be there and
perceive in order to study, placed on a graduated scale of increasing
difficulty are:

        Beginning at all
        The classroom or work space
        Paper
        Books
        Writing materials
        Sounds
        A student
        The supervisor
        The area of the study subject's physical components
        The motionless equipment of the subject
        The moving equipment of the subject
        Masses connected with the subject
        The subject as a whole.

    The next stages would have to be confronting while moving. This
requires a consecutive being there and perceiving even though one is
occupying different locations.

    The next stages would be confronting selectively while moving
despite other things seeking to distract.

    This is not an effort to set out the numerous confronting drills. It
is intended to set out the various axioms* or laws necessary to an
understanding of the subject of confronting itself.

    From these brief notes all the axioms can be derived.

    The fundamental and basic simplicities of confronting itself is the
first thing that must be grasped. All complexity surrounding any subject
or action comes from a greater or lesser inability to confront.

    Study is very simple and study data is for use. Use it well to
become a competent Dianetic counselor.
-------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]~Science of Survival~ by L. Ron Hubbard: This book gives a thorough
analysis of the characteristics common to people of different levels of
awareness and emotional tone. Included are chapters on social, ethical,
physical and emotional characteristics, courage, responsibility and
many, many more covering the full range of human behavior.


                CHAPTER 3

                BASIC DIANETIC
                DEFINITIONS AND
                ILLUSTRATIONS

                38 BOOK ONE

[picture#03]

    Dianetics: Man's most advanced school of the mind. From the Greek
~dia~, through, and ~noos~, soul, thus "through soul" or "through
thought."

    Mental image picture: mental image picture is a copy of photograph
of the physical universe as it goes by.


    A person records all that he perceives in the form of mental image
pictures.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  39

[picture#04]

    Time Track: The time track is the consecutive record of mental image
pictures which accumulates through the person's life. It is very exactly
dated. It also contains sounds, tastes, smells, sights, dimensions,
color and many other perceptions a person experiences.

    Everyone has a time track. Everything which an individual has
perceived throughout his life is recorded on this time track from the
beginning to the end.

                40 BOOK ONE

[picture#05]

    The person makes the time track as time rolls forward.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  41

[picture#06]

    Every moment of now--present time--finds the organism registering by
perception some portion of the physical universe. He does this as an
obsessive create on a subawareness level. It is done by an involuntary
intention, not under the pc's awareness or control. There is a scene
about every 1/25th of a second.

                42 BOOK ONE

[picture#07]

    A time track is made up of different types of mental image pictures.

    Pleasure moment: Pleasure moments are mental image pictures
containing pleasure sensations. One seldom addresses them unless the
person is fixated on some type of "pleasure" to a point where it has
become highly aberrated.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  43

[picture#08]

    Engram: An engram is a mental image picture which is a recording of
a time of physical pain and unconsciousness. It must by definition have
impact or injury as part of its content.

    An engram is a recording of something which actually happened to a
person in the past.

                44 BOOK ONE

[picture#09]

    Secondary: A secondary is a mental image picture of a moment of
severe and shocking loss or threat of loss which contains misemotion
such as anger, fear, grief, apathy or "deathfulness." It is a mental
image picture recording of a time of severe mental stress. It may
contain unconsciousness.

    These contain no physical pain--they are moments of shock and stress
and depend for their force on earlier engrams which have been
restimulated by the circumstances of the secondary.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  45

[picture#10]

    Lock: A lock is a mental image picture of an incident where one was
knowingly or unknowingly reminded of a secondary or engram. It does not
itself contain a blow or a burn or impact and is not any major cause of
misemotion. It does not contain unconsciousness. It may contain a
feeling of pain or illness, etc., but is not itself the source of it.

    A lock is a mental image picture of a non-painful but disturbing
experience the person has experienced and which depends for its force on
an earlier secondary and engram which the experience has restimulated.

                46  BOOK ONE

[picture#11]

    The time track is made up of a lot of mental image pictures,
particular experiences which either stand out or remain hidden.

    The preclear is the effect of all this recorded experience. Almost
all of it is unknown to him. There are no other influencing agencies for
the preclear than this time track and present time. And present time, a
moment later is part of the time track.

    Shakespeare said all life was a play. He was right in so far as the
time track is a 3D, 55 perception movie which is a whole series of plays
concerning the individual. But the influence of it upon the preclear
removes it from the class of pretense and play. It is not only very
real, it is what contains whatever it is that depresses him to what he
is today. Its savageness relieved, he can recover, and only then. There
is no other valid workable road.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  47

[picture#12]

    The engram is the single and sole source of aberration and
psychosomatic illness.

    Aberration: Aberration is "any departure from rationality." Used in
Dianetics to include psychoses, neuroses, compulsions and repressions of
all kinds and classifications.

    Psychosomatic: ~psycho~, of course, refers to mind and ~somatic~
refers to body; the term psychosomatic means the mind making the body
ill or illnesses which have been created physically within the body by
derangement of the mind.

                48 BOOK ONE

[picture#13]

    Derangement falls sharply into two categories:

    The first is the mental derangement, any irrational condition, which
in Dianetics we call aberration.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  49

[picture#14]

    The other derangement of the individual is somatic. This applies
entirely to his physical being and physical ability and health.

    Both these things are present in every engram: the ~aberration~ and
the ~somatic~.

                50 BOOK ONE

[picture#15]

    Unwanted attitudes and emotions, bizarre aches and pains in various
portions of the body stem from engrams. (To name a few; arthritis,
allergies, asthma, eye trouble, ulcers, migraine headaches.)

    Just how many physical errors are psychosomatic depends upon how
many conditions the body can generate out of the factors in the engrams.
For example, the common cold has been found to be psychosomatic.

    In "normal people," in the neurotic and insane, the removal of these
engrams wholly or in part, without other therapy, has uniformly brought
about a state greatly superior to the current norm.

    The end product of Dianetics is a well, happy, high IQ human being.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 51

[picture#16]

    How Dianetic Auditing Works.

    The Dianetic auditor handles the parts of the time track which cause
the preclear to have unwanted attitudes, emotions, sensations and pains.

    Each pain or discomfort is caused by a series of related pictures
which form a chain.

    Chain: Chain means a series of recordings of similar experiences. A
chain has engrams, secondaries and locks. Example: head injury chain.

                52  BOOK ONE

[picture#17]

    Chains can grow to any length. As time goes on the person records
new experiences in the form of mental image pictures.

    Key-in: the action of recording a lock on a secondary or engram.

    For example: at some future point the person may be watching a ball
game and not having had enough sleep the night before or not eating
properly that day has made him very susceptible to restimulation. So he
"keys in" and gets a headache and another lock is formed on the chain.
This is restimulation.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 53

[picture#18]

    A future head injury containing pain and unconsciousness would add a
new engram to the chain.

                54  BOOK ONE

[picture#19]

    More secondaries, locks and engrams can accumulate on the chain.

    The years go by and one day he shows up at a church for some
Dianetic counseling. By this time the chain might look something like
this. (And he would probably be complaining of a migraine headache.)

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 55

[picture#20]


                ¤How A Chain Is Run¤


    The Dianetic process, R3R, is a standard set of commands and steps.
The Dianetic auditor uses R3R to get a preclear to locate and examine
the chains on his time track which cause him discomfort in present time.

    The feeling chains (pains, soreness, physical sensation) are the
ones that relieve what's wrong with the preclear. Therefore, the
Dianetic auditor asks for and follows down only feelings.

    Those can be attitudes, emotions, sensations or pains.

    Somatic: essentially body sensation, illness, pain or discomfort.
~Soma~ means body.

    By using somatics (meaning discomforts, complaints, sensations,
aches, pains) to trace
back and by staying on the chain of only one somatic (i.e. headaches)
you get back
down the single chain without dispersing all over the place into
different chains.

                56 BOOK ONE

[picture#21]

    An incident is a series of mental image pictures held together by a
common sequence.

    As each incident is found on the chain, and the auditor has his
preclear examine it from the beginning to the end of the incident--that
is, from the point furthest away from present time.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  57

[picture#22]

    The preclear is guided along his time track to earlier and earlier
incidents on the somatic chain until he finds the earliest or BASIC
incident on the chain which actually started that chain and that
somatic.

    Basic: This is the FIRST experience recorded in mental image
pictures of that TYPE of pain, sensation, discomfort, etc. Every chain
has its basic. Basic is simply earliest.

    Unburdening: As a basic is not at once available on any chain one
usually ~unburdens~ it by running later engrams (closer to present
time), secondaries and locks. The act of unburdening would be digging
off the top to get at the bottom as in moving sand. As you run off later
incidents, the ability of the preclear to confront it also increases and
basic is easy to run when finally contacted.

                58  BOOK ONE

[picture#23]

    It is a peculiarity and a fact that when one gets down to the basic
on a chain (a) it erases and, (b) the whole chain vanishes for good.

    Erasure is the action of erasing, rubbing out locks, secondaries or
engrams.

    The auditor sends the preclear through the basic engram as many
times as it takes to erase it.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 59

[picture#24]



                60  BOOK ONE

[picture#25]

    While running an incident, sometimes the whole chain will key
out--that is, move away from the person so that it is no longer
impinging on him and exerting its force and command over him.

    Key-out is an action of the engram or secondary dropping away
without being erased.

    This is OK, but the basic engram is still there. It still holds the
chain in place, and the chain can key back in at some future time.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  61

[picture#26]

    So, what the Dianetic auditor wants is erasure of the basic engram.

    This leaves the pc free of that particular somatic forever.

                62 BOOK ONE

[picture#27]

    A person has numerous incidents which form various somatic chains
stretching back along his time track. There is a basic engram at the
earliest point on each chain. Most chains are loaded with locks,
secondaries and engrams. A person usually only has a small number of the
total of his engramic chains in restimulation at any one time. A
sickness or somatic is usually a composite involving more than one
chain. The above shows a person who might say he had "rheumatic" pains
in his right shoulder and a headache. As you can see, he really has a
composite of three basic engrams in restimulation impinging on him.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  63

[picture#28]

    The Dianetic auditor audits the most available symptom first until
the picture causing it is erased. Then find the next one and audit it to
erasure of its picture, then the next. Sooner or later the "pc" will
have a well, healthy body, health, stability and a sense of well-being.

    The person's Dianetic auditing is now complete. He still has other
engrams, but these are not in restimulation and so do not get in his way
or cause pain or illness. These may never restimulate in the entire life
of the pc, but if any should, the pc can receive more Dianetics at any
time.

    All somatic chains that were in restimulation have been traced to
basic and blown. THE PC IS NOW HAPPY AND HEALTHY. (Other engrams
and chains can exist back on the time track but as they are not in
restimulation they have no effect on the person.)

                64 BOOK ONE

    These Dianetic illustrations are also to be used in conjunction with
the following Dianetic basic definitions.

    AUDITING consists of asking a preclear a question (which he can
understand and answer), getting an answer to that question and
acknowledging him for that answer. It is the application of Dianetic or
Scientology procedures to someone by a trained auditor.

    THETAN: The person himself--not his body or name, the physical
universe, his mind or anything else; that which is aware of being aware;
the identity that IS the individual. (From ~theta~ -O-, the Greek symbol
for "thought" or perhaps "spirit.")

    REACTIVE MIND: Reactive bank; composed of engrams, secondaries and
locks, the reactive mind can be described as a collection of facsimiles
(recordings in mental energy picture form) made and retained unknowingly
by the individual of the universe around him, which are not under his
volitional control and which exert force and the power of command over
his awareness, purposes, thoughts, body and actions. Resolved by
processing, using Standard Dianetics and Scientology.

    BANK: A colloquial name for the reactive mind. (This is what the
procedures of Dianetics and Scientology are devoted to disposing of, for
it is only a burden to an individual and he is much better off without
it.) It comes from computer technology where all the data is in a
"bank."

    E-METER (Hubbard Electrometer): An electronic instrument for
measuring mental state and change of state in individuals, as an aid to
precision and speed in auditing. (The E-meter is not intended or
effective for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease.)

    F/N (floating needle) is a needle manifestation of the E-meter which
indicates the preclear has reached the end point of the process being
run. The needle moves in an idle, uninfluenced motion. It appears to
"float."

    SOMATICS is a general word for uncomfortable physical perceptions
coming from the reactive mind. Its genus is early Dianetics and it is a
general, common package word used to denote "pain" or "sensation" with
no difference made between them. To understand the source of these
feelings,

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 65

one should have a knowledge of engrams, and other parts of the reactive
mind. To the Dianeticist anything is a somatic if it emanates from the
various parts of the reactive mind and produces an awareness of
reactivity. Symbol, SOM.

    PAIN (in its various forms) is the indication of an engram. Composed
of heat, cold, electrical and the combined effect of sharp hurting. If
one stuck a fork in his arm, he would experience pain. When one uses
pain in connection with auditing one means awareness of heat, cold,
electrical or hurting stemming from the reactive mind. According to
experiments done at Harvard, if one were to make a grid with heated
tubes going vertically and chilled tubes going horizontally and were to
place a small current of electricity through the lot, the device touched
to a body would produce a feeling of pain. It need not be composed of
anything very hot or cold or of any high voltage to produce a very
intense feeling of pain. Therefore what we call pain is itself heat,
cold and electrical. If a pc experiences one or more of these from his
reactive mind, we say he is experiencing pain. Its symbol is PN.

    "ELECTRICAL" is the bridge between sensation and pain and is
difficult to classify as either pain or sensation when it exists alone.

    SENSATION (in its various forms) is the indication of a secondary,
which precedes the actual engram. All uncomfortable perceptions stemming
from the reactive mind are called sensation. These are basically
"Pressure," "motion," "dizziness," "sexual sensation," and "emotion and
misemotion."* There are others, definite in themselves but definable in
these five general categories. If one took the fork in the pain
definition above and pressed it against the arm, that would be
"pressure." "Motion is just that, a feeling of being in motion when one
is not. "Motion" includes the "winds of space," a feeling of being blown
upon especially from in front of the face. "Dizziness" is a feeling of
disorientation and includes a spinniness, as well as an out-of-balance
feeling. "Sexual sensation" means any feeling, pleasant or unpleasant,
commonly experienced during sexual restimulation or action. "Emotion and
misemotion" include all levels of the complete tone scale except "pain";
emotion

                66 BOOK ONE

and misemotion are closely allied to "motion," being only a finer
particle action. A bank solidity is a form of "pressure," and when the
sensation of increasing solidity of masses in the mind occurs, we say
"the bank is beefing up." All these are classified as sensation. Symbol,
SEN.

    It is of the very greatest importance that a Dianetic auditor really
grasp what these things are. Otherwise he won't know what he is doing or
to what.

    Now because he isn't ~seeing~ his preclear's pictures an auditor can
become very careless about them and not handle them correctly.

    If an auditor doesn't really know what these things are (erasure,
locks, secondaries, engrams) he cannot of course hope to handle them for
the preclear.

    The basic Dianetic errors are just not knowing what these are and
that they are there to be handled and that these and these alone cause
psychosomatic ills.

    Once one has a full grip on these definitions he can then and only
then hope to do anything with them for the preclear.

    If the auditor is going to handle the aches, pains, unwanted
sensations and psychosomatic illnesses of the preclear, it requires that
he fully grasp these basic definitions.

    Literally millions of complications can stem from the simple fact
that a preclear records experiences in mental image pictures and that
these thereafter can affect his body adversely.

    Once one really understands that mental image pictures are ~all~
there is in the preclear's "mind" one has understood the total of
aberration. There is NOT something else there. No "id," no "ego." There
are only mental image pictures.

    These, if you use the exact procedures of Dianetics can be found and
erased.

    When the unwanted locks, secondaries and engrams are erased the
preclear will be rid of the physical disabilities of which he complains
and will be well physically.

    MISEMOTION is anything that is unpleasant emotion such as
antagonism, anger, fear, grief, apathy or a death feeling.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS 67

    This is the entire breadth of Dianetics today.

    In Scientology we deal with the thetan, the being who is the
individual and who handles and lives in the body. This is beyond the
scope of Dianetics.

    If a preclear is well physically, made so spiritually by Dianetics
and any required physical medication or nutrition, he can then embark on
Scientology, the increase of his abilities and spiritual freedom.

    If a preclear who is being audited or has been audited on
Scientology becomes ill one DOES NOT TRY TO MAKE HIM WELL BY GIVING HIM
HIGHER LEVEL AUDITING. That would be an error of great magnitude.
Instead ONE REVERTS TO DIANETIC AUDITING until the pc is well and only
then continues with Scientology.

    This is correct procedure because it works.

    People "come into Scientology" to cure their headaches. Give them
Dianetic auditing until he or she no longer has headaches and then begin
to audit the person on Scientology so as to put them well above ever
again getting headaches.

    Continual headaches come from mental image pictures retained by the
pc of having a head crushed or shot off or hit. That is an engram. It
actually had to happen. It is NOT imaginary or delusion. The proof is
that when the auditor finally erases the engram the recording of the
injury is gone and the headaches will not again occur.

    The preclear often is unable to confront the actual engram at once.
He offers one a lock, a time when he had a headache. One "runs"
(processes) this lock, (one always runs whatever is offered, you don't
force the pc) and finds after putting the preclear through it a couple
of times that IT IS GETTING MORE SOLID (the preclear experiences the
feeling of pressure becoming heavier or the somatic intensifying) or it
simply isn't erasing. One finds an earlier recording. This possibly
turns out to be a secondary. The preclear had a moment of loss and cried
and also had a headache.

    This secondary may or may not erase. If it does one leaves it of
course as finished. But if it does not erase and isn't erasing after a
couple of times through it, one then asks for an earlier one.

                68 BOOK ONE

    One probably would then get the actual ~engram~, a recording of a
time when the head was actually injured.

    One runs this and after a couple of times through, finds it isn't
erasing and so goes earlier for another engram.

    This one erases.

    When it erases, the whole chain of headaches ALSO
erases.

    And that is the end of the pc's headaches period.

    One then inquires after other somatics or sensations and handles
them the same way.

    It is also done by using the technique called R3R (covered later in
the book)* without variation.

    Since these recordings contain mainly other determinedness (pictures
of others doing things) the auditor always has more control over the
preclear's mental image pictures than the preclear does. Thus the
pictures do what the auditor says. This point too must be grasped by an
auditor or he will be waiting on the preclear to act or move in time.

    BLACK FIELD is just some part of a mental image picture where the
preclear is looking at blackness. It is part of some lock, secondary or
engram. It responds to R3R.

    INVISIBLE FIELD is just a part of some lock, secondary or engram
that is "invisible." It, like a black field responds to R3R.

    PRESSURE SOMATIC in Dianetics is considered to be a symptom in a
lock, secondary or engram, simply part of the content.

    Whatever the symptom, pain, sensation, whatever, it is from either
the body directly (such as a broken bone, a gallstone or immediate
physical cause) or is part of the content of a mental image
picture--lock, secondary or engram.

    The Dianetic auditor does not audit ideas or "think." He is handling
mental recordings. Ideas are in them. Ideas come out of them. But
"~think~" is not part of Dianetics.

    In Dianetics we handle locks, secondaries and engrams.

    FLOATING NEEDLES* occur when a key-out occurs or when an engram is
erased.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  69

    When one ~keys out~ (rather than erases) an engram, the preclear can
always, in life, get a ~key-in~ of the engram again and so become ill as
before. This does not mean one should audit past a floating needle. It
does however point out that you can ~key out~ an engram without running
it and at once key it back in again and run it.

    An example is getting the date. One gets a floating needle. It is
better to leave it at that. But also realize the incident that hasn't
been run is still there.

    ASSESS in Dianetics means choose, from a list of statements which
item or thing has the longest E-meter reaction or the pc's interest. The
longest read* will also have the pc's interest oddly enough.

    MULTIPLE ILLNESS. The preclear is physically uncomfortable or ill
from several engrams of different types all restimulated. One runs one
somatic chain at a time, running each new symptom that is assessed or
stated by the preclear. One runs the chain of one particular somatic or
discomfort or complaint down to key-out or erasure before doing the next
somatic or discomfort or complaint.

    AUTOMATIC BANK. When a pc gets picture after picture after picture
all out of control. This occurs when one isn't following an assessed
somatic or complaint or has chosen the wrong one or one which the pc is
not ready to confront or by overwhelming the pc with rough TRs* or going
very non-standard. Some pcs turn up in their first session with
automatic banks. The thing to do is carefully assess the physical
complaint for longest or best read and gently handle ~that~ chain well.

    VALENCE is the assumption at the reactive level by one individual of
the characteristics of another individual. An individual may have a
number of valences which he puts on and off as he might hats. Often
these changes are so marked that an observant person can notice him
dropping one valence and putting on another. The shift from valence to
valence is usually completely outside the awareness and control of the
individual doing so. In other cases an individual has one valence, not
his own, in which he is thoroughly stuck.

                70 BOOK ONE

    ALLY is a person from whom sympathy came when the preclear was ill
or injured. If the ally came to the preclear's defense or his words
and/or actions were aligned with the individual's survival, the reactive
mind gives that ally the status of always being right--especially if
this ally was obtained during a highly painful engram.

    CIRCUIT is a part of an individual's bank that behaves as though it
were someone or something separate from him and either dictates or takes
over his actions. (Circuits are the result of engramic commands.)

    MACHINE is an actual machine in the mind (like ordinary machinery)
constructed out of mental mass and energy, that has been made by the
individual to do work for him, usually having been set up so as to come
into operation automatically under certain pre-determined circumstances.

    RIDGES are solid accumulations of old, inactive energy suspended in
space and time. They are generated by opposing energy flows hitting one
another and continue to exist long after the energy flows have ceased.
Ridges exist in suspension around a person.

    ABERRATION is a departure from rational thought or behavior. From
the Latin, ~aberrare~, to wander from, Latin ~ab~, away, ~errare~, to
wander. It means basically to err, to make mistakes, or more
specifically to have fixed ideas which are not true. The word is also
used in its scientific sense. It means departure from a straight line.
If a line should go from A to B, then if it is "aberrated" it would go
from A to some other point, to some other point, to some other point, to
some other point, to some other point, and finally arrive at B. Taken in
its scientific sense, it would also mean the lack of straightness or to
see crookedly. As an example, a man sees a horse but thinks he sees an
elephant. ~Aberrated~ conduct would be wrong conduct, or conduct not
supported by reason. When a person has engrams, these tend to deflect
what would be his normal ability which then would cause an ~aberrated~
reaction to them. ~Aberration~ is opposed to sanity, which would be its
opposite. ~Aberree~ is sometimes used in Dianetics to designate an
aberrated person.

                BASIC DIANETIC DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS  71

    ALTER-IS is a composite word meaning the action of altering or
changing the reality of something. IS-NESS means the way it is. When
someone sees it differently he is doing an "alter-is," in other words,
is ~altering~ the way it is.

    ADDITIVE is a thing which has been added. This usually has a bad
meaning in that an ~additive~ is said to be something needless or
harmful which has been done in addition to standard procedure.
~Additive~ normally means a departure from standard procedure. For
example, an auditor puts different or additional words into a standard
process or command. It means a twist on standard procedure. In common
English, it might mean a substance put into a compound to improve its
qualities or suppress undesirable qualities. In Dianetics and
Scientology, it definitely means to ~add~ something to the technology or
procedure resulting in undesirable results.

    ANALYTICAL means capable of resolving, such as problems, situations.
The ~analytical~ mind would be the conscious aware mind which thinks,
observes data, remembers it and resolves problems. It would be
essentially the conscious mind as opposed to the unconscious mind. In
Dianetics and Scientology the ~analytical~ mind is the one which is
alert and aware and the reactive mind simply reacts without ~analysis~.
The word ~analytical~ is from the Greek, ~analysis~, meaning resolve,
undo, loosen, which is to say take something to pieces to see what it is
made of. This is one of those examples of the shortcomings of the
English language since no dictionary gives the word analytical any
connection with thinking, reasoning, perceiving, which in essence is
what it would have to mean, even in English.

    ARC is a word made from the initial letters of Affinity, Reality and
Communication which together equate to understanding. It is pronounced
by stating its letters A-R-C. To Scientologists, it has come to mean
good feeling, love or friendliness, such as "He was in ~ARC~ with his
friend."

    ARC BREAK means a sudden drop or cutting of one's affinity, reality
or communication with someone or something. Upsets with people or things
come about because of a lessening or sundering of affinity, reality, or
communication

                72 BOOK ONE

or understanding. It's called an ~ARC break~ instead of an upset because
if one discovers which of the three points or understanding have been
cut, one can bring about a rapid recovery in the person's state of mind.
It is pronounced by its letters A-R-C break. When an ~ARC break~ is
permitted to continue over too long a period of time and remains in
restimulation a person goes into a "sad effect," which is to say they
become sad and mournful, usually without knowing what is causing it.
This condition is handled by finding the earliest ~ARC break~ on the
chain; finding whether it was a break in affinity, reality,
communication or understanding and indicating it to the person, always,
of course, in session.*

    If you know these definitions COLD so you don't have to mutter them
or memorize them but just KNOW them, you will really get results with
Dianetics.

    The discoveries of Dianetics were basic and vital and opened a wide
new unexplored frontier.

    These words were assigned to things arbitrarily. They had to be. Man
had not had any notion of these things before so they had no names and
had to be assigned names. the names were chosen because they didn't also
mean something else in another field of science.

    The terms are therefore IMPORTANT and what they mean and the things
they name must be grasped before success can attend any auditing.

    Any failures of Dianetic auditors were not the failures of
Dianetics. The persons attempting to audit others didn't KNOW what these
~things~ were, essentially the lock, the secondary, the engram, erasure
and key-out.

    So these are essential to any training or use of Dianetics.


                CHAPTER 4

                WHAT IS THE MIND

    Man for all his years took the observation for a fact that when a
human being was no longer able to control his own operations and
functions and so long as he, again in control, could not recall what had
occurred, that the material was not recorded. This was wholly
unwarranted as an assumption.

    Let us examine, first, pain. Pain, technically, is caused by an
effort counter to the effort of the individual as a whole.

    The organism is a colonial aggregation of cells. Each cell is
seeking to live. Each cell and the whole organism is basically motivated
by a desire to survive.

    The entire physical structure is composed of atoms and molecules,
organic and inorganic. While the individual is alive and conscious,
these atoms and molecules are in a state of optimum or near-optimum
tension and alignment.

    On the receipt of a counter-effort such as that of a blow, or,
internally, as in the case of drugs, shock or bacteria, the

                74 BOOK ONE

optimum or near-optimum tension and alignment of these atoms and
molecules, as contained in the nerves, muscles, bones, and tissues of
the body, are disarranged. The result is a slackening or speeding of the
motions of the physical body in such a way as to cause misalignment and
maltension of the atoms and molecules.

    This is pain. Counter-efforts to survival cause this effect to take
place. The technical name of this effect is RANDOMITY. The directions of
motion of the various portions of the body are disarranged into random
vectors or patterns. Pain results in loss, invariably, the loss of cells
or the loss of general alignment.

    When pain departs, it is still on record. The record of that pain
can be called again into existence.

    If you wish to make a very simple test, simply go back to the last
time you hurt yourself. Get as many perceptions as you can of the object
which hurt you and the surrounding environment. Seek to contact the
painful object again. Unless you are badly occluded, you should be able
to feel that pain once more. Ask your friends to try it. Sooner or later
you will find someone who can recall pain.

    Another test: Pinch yourself and then go back to the moment you did
it and feel the pinch again.

    In short, pain is stored on record. But that is not all that is
stored. The whole area of any randomity is stored in full. The atoms and
molecules rearrange themselves, when pain is recontacted, into the
pattern they had when that pain was received. Hence the pain can come
back. But also the effort and all of its perceptions can come back when
either the pain or the general randomity come back.

    The misalignment caused by a blow, shock, drugs, or bacteria causes
an inability of the control center of the mind to function. Thus, the
control center of the mind can go unconscious, and can be overwhelmed by
this misalignment.

    After consciousness is regained, whenever the control center of the
mind tries to recall what happened, it can recall only the randomity. It
is trying to recall a time when it could not recall and thus draws a
blank.

                WHAT IS THE MIND 75

    Man thought that if he could not recall a thing, then it didn't
record. This is like the little child who hides his eyes and then thinks
you can't see him just because he can't see you.

    With every area of randomity thus created by injury or illness or
shock or drugs, there is stored as well the counter-effort to the body.
The effort impinged upon the body by the blow or other misaligning
factor is also stored. This is physical force. When it comes back upon
the body, it comes back as physical force. It can distort features or
the body by being in constant "restimulation."

    Restimulation is occasioned by some part of the early recording
being approximated in the environment in the present. This calls up the
old area of randomity. The body, confused, registers the old
counter-effort.

    Nearly everyone has these counter-efforts of the past being, some of
them, exerted against him in the present. His sub-level awareness is
tied up in resisting old counter-efforts, blows, sicknesses, drugs,
which once affected him and drove him into unconsciousness.

    The moment an individual wholly concentrates his attention elsewhere
these old areas may exert their force again.

    Feel the aliveness or full sense of being of each one of the
following. Feel wholly alive only in the member of your body named:

        1. The right foot
        2. The left foot
        3. The right cheek
        4. The left cheek
        5. The toes
        6. The back of the head
        7. The back of the neck
        8. The nose
        9. The right hand
        10. The tongue
        11. The left hand
        12. The stomach.

                76 BOOK ONE

    If you have gone over these members, investing carefully, aliveness
only in each, you probably will have received various aches and pains in
areas where your concentration was not fixed or at least experienced
grogginess. Try it several times.

    Processing cleans up these old areas with resultant rise in health
and sanity.

    In Dianetics the reactive mind is that thinkingness which goes on
without analytical inspection. The reactive mind is described fully and
accurately in ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~.

    The whole of Freudian analysis concerns itself with treating the
reactive mind. Freud called it the unconscious, amongst other things.

    The whole of German (and U.S.) psychology concerns itself with
examining the reactive mind.

    Only Dianetics laid bare the full anatomy of the reactive mind. That
anatomy is concerned with mental image pictures ordinarily unseen by the
person which nevertheless dictate his illnesses and responses.

    The primary characteristic of the reactive mind is response to a
situation without analytical inspection. People react without volition.
They do strange things when confronted with stimuli.

    Offer a man a cup of coffee. He twitches. He doesn't know why he
did. Wink at a girl and she gets an earache. She doesn't know why she
did.

    This is the reactive mind at work.

    Think of going for a drive--get tired. Decide to study--get a
stomach ache. These are reactive mind actions.

    And the pity of it is the man didn't know it was the cup of coffee
that made him twitch. The girl didn't know it was the wink which gave
her an earache. Because it is an illogical connection.

    But that is the stock in trade of the reactive mind--everything
equals everything.


¤Time Track¤


    The auditor ~must~ know the basic laws and mechanics of the time
track in order to run engrams. There ~is not rote~

                WHAT IS THE MIND 77

procedure and never will be that will be successful on all cases in the
absence of a knowledge of what a time track is.

    There is no substitute for knowing what engrams are and what they
do. Knowing that, you can run engrams. Not knowing that, there is
nothing that will take the place of such knowledge. You have to know the
behavior of and data about engrams. There is no royal road that avoids
such knowledge. If you know all about engrams you can run them. If you
don't, you'll make a mess regardless of the commands given for use.

    Therefore, the essence of engram ~running~ is a knowledge of the
character and behavior of engrams. This is not a vast subject.

    However, these three things stand in the way of learning about
engrams:

    1. Engrams contain pain and unconsciousness; fear of pain or
inflicting pain causes the auditor not to confront the pc's engrams and
unconsciousness is after all a not knowing condition; and

    2. The auditor is so accustomed to projectionists reeling off movies
and TV programs for him or her that the auditor tends to just sit while
the action rolls forward, acting like a spectator, not the
projectionist;

    3. Failure to handle time in incidents.

    On 1, you can remedy this just by knowing about it and realizing it
and surmounting it and on 2, you can remedy the attitude by realizing
that the auditor, not the preclear (or some installed movie
projectionist) is operating the preclear's bank. #3 is covered later.

    Take a pocket movie projector and any bit of a reel of film and wind
it back and forth for a while and you'll see ~you~ are moving it. Then
give a command and move the film and you'll have what you're doing as an
auditor. Many drills can be developed using such equipment and 2 will be
overcome. 1 requires just understanding and the will to rise superior to
it.

    The endless record called the TIME TRACK, complete with 55
perceptions of the preclear's entire past, is available to the auditor
and his or her auditing commands.

    The rules are: ~The time track obeys the auditor~. ~The time track
does not obey a preclear~ (early in auditing).

                78 BOOK ONE

    The time track is a very accurate record of the preclear's past,
very accurately timed, very obedient to the auditor. If motion picture
film were 3D, had 55 perceptions and could fully react upon the
observer, the time track could be called a motion picture film. It is at
least 350,000,000,000,000 years long, probably much longer, with a scene
about every 1/25th of a second.

    That part of the time track that is free of pain and misadventure is
called simply the free track, in that the preclear doesn't freeze up on
it.

    ~Any~ mental picture that is unknowingly created and part of the
time track is called a FACSIMILE, whether an engram, secondary, lock or
pleasure moment.

    Any ~knowingly created~ mental picture that is not part of a time
track is called a MOCK-UP.

    Any unknowingly created mental picture that appears to have been a
record of the physical universe but is in fact only an altered copy of
the time track is called a DUB-IN.

    Those parts of the time track that contain moments of pain and
unconsciousness are called ENGRAMS.

    Those parts of the time track which contain misemotion based on
earlier engramic experience are called SECONDARIES.

    Those parts of the time track which contain the first moment an
earlier engram is restimulated are called KEY-INS.

    Those parts of the time track which contain moments the preclear
associates with key-ins are called LOCKS.

    A series of similar engrams or of similar locks are called CHAINS.

    Incidents are not in piles or files. They are simply a part of the
consecutive time track.

    By INCIDENT is meant the recording of an experience, simple or
complex, related by the same subject, location or people, understood to
take place in a short and finite time period such as minutes or hours or
days.

    A CHAIN OF INCIDENTS makes up a whole adventure or activity related
by the same subject, general location or people, understood to take
place in a long time period--weeks, months, years or even billions or
trillions of years.

                WHAT IS THE MIND 79

    An incident can be an engram, secondary, key-in or lock. A chain of
incidents can therefore be a chain of experiences which are engrams,
secondaries, key-ins and locks.

    A chain of incidents has only one BASIC. Its BASIC is the earliest
engram received from or overt act committed against the subject,
location or being which make it a chain.

    There are valences, circuits and machinery in the reactive mind, but
these all have their place on the time track and are part of the time
track.

    The preclear makes the time track as time rolls forward. He does
this as an obsessive create on a sub-awareness level. It is done by an
INVOLUNTARY INTENTION, not under the preclear's awareness or control.

    The Road to Clear by making the preclear take over the creating of
the time track was long explored and proved completely valueless and
chancy.

    The Road to Clear by making the preclear leave the time track lasts
only for minutes, hours or days and has proven valueless.

    The Road to Clear, proven over many years of intense research and
vast numbers of auditing hours and cases, lies only in an auditor
handling the time track and removing from it, by means governed by the
Auditor's Code, the material, which, recorded on it, is out of the
control of the preclear and holds the preclear at effect. Engram
running, recall processes and assists* all handle the time track
successfully and are therefore the basis of all Dianetic processing.

    There are no faults in the recording of the time track. There are
only snarls caused by groupers, and unavailability and lack of
perception of the time track.

    A grouper is anything which pulls the time track into a bunch at one
or more points. When the grouper is gone the time track is perceived to
be straight.

    Unavailability is caused by the preclear's inability to confront or
BOUNCERS and DENYERS. A bouncer throws the preclear (pc) backward,
forward, up or down the track and so makes it apparently unavailable. A
denyer obscures a

                80  BOOK ONE

part of track by implying it is not there or elsewhere (a mis-director)
or should not be viewed.

    Groupers, bouncers, and denyers are material (matter, energy, space
and time in the form of effort, force, mass, delusion, etc.) or command
phrases (statements that group, bounce, or deny). When a grouper,
bouncer or denyer are enforced by both material ~and~ command phrases
they become most effective, making the time track unavailable to the pc.

    Unless the time track is made available it cannot be as-ised* by the
pc and so remains aberrative.

    The time track is actual in that it is made of matter, energy, space
and time as well as thought. Those who cannot confront matter, energy,
space and time think it is composed only of thought. A grouper can make
a pc fat and a bouncer thin if the pc is chronically stuck in them or if
the track is grouped or made unavailable through bad auditing.

    Through a great deal of study, the following surmises can be made
about the time track, the physical universe and the pc.

    The tendency of the physical universe is condensation and
solidification. At least this is the effect produced on the individual.
Continued dwelling in it without rehabilitation* causes the person to
become less reaching ("smaller") and more solid. He may become convinced
he cannot duplicate matter, energy, space or time or certain intentions
and so succumbs to the influence of this universe. This influence in
itself would be negligible unless recorded by the individual, stored and
made reactive upon him as a time track and then maliciously used to trap
the person.

    Researches I have done in the field of aesthetics tend to indicate
that rhythm is the source of present time. The being is carried along
both by his own desire to have, do or be and by having been overwhelmed
in the distant past by a continuous minute rhythm. This is a possible
explanation of a being's continuous presence in present time. Present
time, then, can be defined as a response to the continuous rhythm of the
physical universe, resulting in a hereness in nowness.

    In response to this rhythm, and with his convictions of the need of
recording, the individual began to respond to the

                WHAT IS THE MIND 81

physical universe in his creations and eventually obsessively created
(by means of restimulatable involuntary intentions) the passing moments
of the physical universe. But only when he began to consider these
pictures important could they be used to aberrate him.

    These are only partly permanently created. Other moments of the past
become re-created only when the person's attention is directed to them,
on which these parts spontaneously appear, the being not voluntarily
creating them.

    This forms the time track. Some parts of it, then, are "permanently"
in a state of creation and the majority of it becoming created when the
person's attention is directed to them.

    The "permanently created" portions are those times of overwhelm and
indecision which almost entirely submerged the being's own will and
awareness.

    Such parts are found in implants* and great stresses. These parts
are in permanent restimulation.

    The mechanism of permanent restimulation consists of opposing forces
of comparable magnitude which cause a balance which does not respond to
current time and remains "timeless."

    Such phenomena as the overt act-motivator sequence,* the problem
(postulate/counter-postulate), tend to hold certain portions of the time
track in "permanent creation" and cause them to continue to exist in
present time as unresolved masses, energies, spaces, times and
significances.

    The intention of the physical universe (and those who have become
degraded enough to further only its ends) is to make a being solid,
immobile and decisionless.

    The fight of the being is to remain unsolid, mobile or immobile at
will, and capable of decision.

    This in itself is the principal unresolved problem and in itself
creates timeless mass which accomplishes the basic purpose of a trap.

    The mechanism of the time track can then be said to be the primary
action in making a person solid, immobile and decisionless. For without
a record of the past accumulating and forming a gradient of
solidification of the being, the

                82 BOOK ONE

entrapment potential of the physical universe would be negligible and
the havingness* which it offers might be quite therapeutic. It probably
requires more than just living in the physical universe to become
aberrated. The main method of causing aberration and entrapment is
therefore found in actions which create or confuse the time track.

    An individual has things beyond matter, energy, space and time which
can deteriorate. His power of choice, his ability to keep two locations
separate, his belief in self and his ethical standards are independent
of material things. But these can be recorded in the time track as well
and one sees them recover when no longer influenced by the time track.

    As the person himself makes his own time track, even if under
compulsion, and commits his own overts, even if on provocation, it can
be said, then, that the being aberrates himself. But he is assisted by
mammoth betrayals and his necessity to combat them. And he is guilty of
aberrating his fellows.

    It is doubtful if any type of being built the physical universe and
still lurks within it to trap further. But older beings, already
degraded, have continuously been about to help newer beings to go
downhill.

    It is enough for us to resolve the problem of the aberrative nature
of this universe and provide a technology which assuages that aberration
and keeps one abreast of it. This is practical and we can already do it.

    There are not many laws of engram running.

    One of the things I discovered is that we have never changed a basic
tenet of auditing. That is, you've never successfully audited anything
but the time track and you never successfully will. There is nothing to
audit but the time track. There is no grand key to the release of things
but the time track. And it ~is~ a time track.

    Probably people think of engrams as something stowed in the pc's
wits like cordwood. They're just stowed there. And then over in this
file cabinet are some round cylinders of some kind, and those are
valences. And down in the basement we have machinery stowed. Locks
belong to an entirely separate division and have nothing to do with

                WHAT IS THE MIND 83

anything. Secondaries are sort of stowed out in the woodshed. They're
pieces and bits of things that are not related.

    Actually, they're simply different phenomena of the time track. That
little discovery seems to be terribly elementary, but it might serve to
orient you pretty well on what you are doing. It is a time track. It is
the continuous record of time of the individual since the first moment
he began to experience, straight on through until now. It is an
uninterrupted, 3D, 55 perception movie.

    Things happen to that movie, and it gets grouped and becomes
unavailable to the preclear. It becomes unavailable to the preclear for
various reasons: his inability to confront and the fact that the track
itself can get grouped. It's as though you took a can of motion picture
film which was all stretched out, and you just started crumpling it up
in your hands in big wads.

    Various things can happen to this consecutive record of experience.
All that auditing ever does is straighten it out and make it available
and as-is it. That gives you a simplification of outlook.

    As you go along on this track, you'll get a moment of pain and
unconsciousness. That's just another record. It's consecutive with the
next moment which is, perhaps, not of pain and unconsciousness.

    Chains don't exist in separate slots and compartments. They're just
sections of the film which happen to be interrelated. A person is hit
over the head with a hammer; therefore, every incident of hitting people
over the head with a hammer, and being hit over the head with a hammer
makes a chain (a related series of experiences). They interrelate in the
association of the individual and actually tend to pull this time track
down on top of one another. You've got a grouper there, so the track
actually gets looped at this point. Then there is the basic time the
individual was hit over the head with a hammer and the basic time the
individual hit somebody over the head with a hammer. And then there are
all the times that he saw a hammer or thought somebody was going to get
hit with a hammer. Those constitute the locks, and they pack down on top
of this thing.

                84 BOOK ONE

    Eventually there is a solid wad there that looks like a piece of
black "God help us." The pc, of course, does not have that experience
available. So when the experience becomes unavailable to him it has a
command value over him. He does not know what it is, and when he comes
near it, it has a tendency to operate as a command level. A hammer is
telling him what to do, in other words.

    There are only two classes of things involved in the time track. One
is what you might call the mechanical things, which are matter, energy,
space and time and their interrelationships, which is this track. And
then there's the significance. So the time track is basically composed
of matter, energy, space, time and thought. That's all the time track is
composed of.

    A psychiatrist or a psychologist did not make discoveries of the
time track or this particular area, the very woof and warp of which the
mind is made, simply because he conceives it all to consist of only
thought. His confront is down to a point where he thinks the brain
contains thought.

    This is kind of silly. It's like walking down the street and saying
there's nothing on this street but opinions. The street is all full of
opinions. If you just get all these opinions on this street you're all
set.

    Whereas it is no opinion that is pushing the pc's face in. It's
somebody's fist. The fist might have been put on the time track because
of somebody's opinion, but the fact of the matter is, it's not an
opinion that's pushing his face in--it's a fist.

    Therefore, the time track is not imaginary. It should not be treated
as an imaginary thing.

    What is "real"? What is real has mass and weight and so on, and so
does the time track.

    You're into vague philosophic mutterings when you start saying,
"What is reality?" You could put on your long, white robe and walk all
over Greece from one end to the other making a good living in almost any
century by just continuing to ask this question in a somewhat deliberate
frame of mind, "What ~is~ reality?"

    We have a pretty good idea of what reality is, but descriptions of
reality do not really form too much of our

                WHAT IS THE MIND 85

technology. We take the shortcut to it and say, "Reality is what is."
Then we shortcut the idea of: Is it because we're thinking it is? Or is
it because we're not thinking it is? Just bypass all of that garbage
pail full of reasons not to look at reality. Just recognize that it's a
non-confront. However it got here, it is!

    The main point is where we are and what we're looking at. The
secondary point is where did it come from? And a tertiary point is
what's going to happen to it? And what we are looking at,
Scientologically, ~is~. It just ~is~.

    There isn't any discussion, then, of whether the preclear is
imagining that he is looking at a brick wall. Is he looking at a brick
wall? Well, it ~is~.

    Now, what is it the product of? In the physical universe a brick
wall is a product of a bricklayer, a brickmaker, the economics of the
society, a clay bank which is part of a planet, which was made and put
here. Now we get to a divergence of opinion: was it put here religiously
or by the Galactic Construction Company? That actually has little
importance. It is here.

    What is ~is~, and where it came from is a slightly different
question. You don't necessarily have to go into these fantastic
ramifications. We have also sort of agreed amongst ourselves that
nothing is holy, by which I mean nothing is proof against being inquired
into.

    Recognizing all those things, we see then that the time track has
remained undiscovered, undescribed, and forms absolutely no part
whatsoever of modern mental studies. Now we must ask why? It's because
the time track has tricks of unavailability, and the beings who are
working in this field do not have a confront sufficient to look past
that unavailability.

    You have to be just a little bit tougher to be a Scientologist.
These other guys weren't quite tough enough. They took the time track,
consisting of matter, energy, space and time and thought, and said it
was all thought. And this of course leaves everything inexplicable.

    The first of the tricks of unavailability is that there is nothing
in a mind but thought. Recognize that as a trick of debarment. If
there's nothing in the mind but thought,

                86 BOOK ONE

anybody who says he's looking at a brick building in the mind, of
course, isn't looking at a brick building; it must, therefore, be
imaginary. So, therefore, he is living in the field of illusion or
delusion. Therefore, he must be slightly mad.

    It's all on the basis that insane people must be mad because they
say they are seeing things. This, of course, compounds the insanity. The
person who is supposed to be treating the insanity says, "No, you are
not seeing these things." So he makes the track less available.

    The direction of sanity lies in the capability of confronting the
time track and the present time environment. For any one individual,
existence consists of the physical universe, present time and everything
that is in it at this exact, precise, present time instant; and the time
track, which consists of everything that has been. That is the total
is-ness* as far as this thing called reality is concerned.

    You can speculate on what the time track has been by reason of the
state it's in now, but that actually is not an is-ness. For example, you
can go around England and see mounds of dirt, furrows on a hillside. If
you look a little bit closer you'll see that it's some old
fortification, a Roman camp, or a medieval castle that has long since
gone to dust and the Socialists.

    It's a lot of fun to add some significance to a pile of stone and
say, "What has it been?" I know I've absolutely astonished myself by the
brilliance with which I could reconstruct, out of a single mound of
stone, the tremendous civilization which went before, and the power of
the fellows who erected it.

    One time I was so overwhelmed by my own learnedness in this
direction that I hardly heard the farmer when he said, "Well, yes,
that's the silo we built last year. It fell down."

    That is a suppositional reality, tremendously subject to error, but
not outlawed for that reason. But recognize its is-ness which is just
suppositional is-ness.

    Every once in a while on the track you've met some fellow in a
conical hat who was saying, "Abracadabra, hocus-pocus, if you just gaze
into the pot here I will tell you

                WHAT IS THE MIND 87

the future." That's quite a game in itself. It's probably a lot of
complexities, but it's suppositional. All futures are suppositional. The
odd part of it is that if they're suppositional enough they come true.

    I used to tell lots of fortunes. You pull a wise face and take a
look at the person's facsimiles and say, "I see you living in a house
which is very close to a railroad track. And there's some very tall,
slender trees, right there at the corner of the roads. Let me see now,
let me see now, don't interrupt me, it's Acacia Manor. Yes, I see you
living at this house."

    "Why, it's fantastic, we just went out to look at such a house
today. In fact, we're going to buy it."

    Of course, the person wasn't going to buy it until you said he was
going to live in it.

    A future is always enforceable from altitude and authority. There
are people like Toynbee who can predict the future. He says he has some
formula that nobody knows but Toynbee. He can predict some sort of a
future out into the future. Of course, he's actually found a trick
method of making a postulate stick by saying, "That is the way it's
going to be because I can read the future." It doesn't escape the fact
that it's a suppositional reality.

    If you break existence down into is-ness and potential is-ness, you
can probably break down this potential into several categories. You
could break this down into numbers, types, categories, sub-classes, and
then sub-classes of sub-classes and then sub-classes of sub-classes of
sub-classes of sub-classes. Pretty soon nobody would know what you're
talking about. So I prefer to leave it at that. There's is-ness and
there's suppositional is-ness.

    The time track often gives people the feeling that the "was" can
return. And they think if they run back just a few hours, years,
millenia, down the track, they will once more find themselves standing
up at the Battle of Bennington and getting their head shot off. This
makes them very nervous about going back.

    One time I saw a line of Redcoats and a line of militia standing up
exchanging shells. For the space of a minute or so, they were total 3D
and a much greater reality than the

                88 BOOK ONE

physical universe had had to me. That was ~solid~. For a moment I
thought I had returned back down the time track on the physical universe
time track and found it all there yesterday. I didn't realize I was
going down my own time track. I could smell the mildew in the wigs, I
was all ready to duck from the next volley. Probably it was there so
solidly because I didn't duck from the next volley. Just looking at it,
the is-ness of it turned out to be simply the is-ness of my own time
track. And at that moment it fitted itself into perspective. It was an
exaggeratedly solid piece of my own time track, more solid and more real
because of the awareness jammed into the moment of time.

    You could mock yourself up futures and could do all sorts of things.
But again, what you're mocking up is suppositional.

    There is one more category that you have to take something of a look
at. It's what is created. The whole business of creating really tends to
rock people because it's half real and half suppositional, the
borderline between the two. It almost depends on the person who says he
is going to create something. If a person who you know does build
buildings says he's going to build a building, his statement is quite
close to reality. You know he was building a building; in fact, you can
also already see the cornerstone. That's a good reality.

    But suppose some person down in the loony bin says he's going to
plant 10,000 acres of forest. That's hardly even a suppositional
reality. You know darn well he's never even going to look at a tree much
less plant a forest. So you know that thing is never going to exist. And
it won't ever exist.

    This matter of suppositional reality and creation come together. But
remember that a creation is just a suppositional reality until the
moment it is created. At the moment it is created, for whatever period
it may endure, it is. Anything created is an is-ness for whatever period
it endures.

    All of this is quite pristine pure, whether it is good for people,
bad for people, nice to do, not nice to do or anything else. These again
are adjudications of what is. That's the opinion of what is, but that's
part of the thought of reality.

                WHAT IS THE MIND 89

    Thought is not separate from reality. Thought is woven solidly into
reality, and thought is part of the is-ness of reality. For instance,
BBC TV conducted a £10 million test to find out who viewed television
and what programs they liked. They built a small studio, bought a
television set, and hired some children. They bought some candy and
comic books and got some furniture and put it in the studio, and drilled
some spyholes in the wall. Then they turned on canned programs so the
children could watch the programs or talk to each other or eat the candy
or read the comic books. And they very carefully noted the reactions
of the children at various points of the programs. They learned that
little children do not like to look at older children's programs, and
older children do not like to look at little children's programs. It
never occured to them to ask anybody, to establish an isness on
the situation. They've got a long way to go.

    There are certain opinions abroad in the world today with which we
may or may not agree, but they happen to be part of the is-ness of this
world. Whether or not they could be changed is again not part of the
is-ness. These thoughts are.

    The ironmonger who weaves his sign with curlicues had a thought when
he wove that set of curlicues on the sign. If you get back and take a
look at this, you're actually looking at iron set in space. You are
perceiving it by energy reflected, and there is a time that you're
looking at it in, and you look at it for a certain period of time, and
all of this is-ness goes together. But most people overlook the fact
that the curlicues are an expression of thought which is part of the
physical universe.

    There's a great deal of thought woven into the physical universe
that is part of its is-ness. It doesn't have to be written up, "Go
here," "Go there," "This is a bear." But, certainly, either the bear
making himself a bear or somebody else making a bear is expressing the
thought of a bear. That thought is expressed by the formation of matter,
energy, space and time. To some degree, thought is a part of the
physical universe, and is part of it's is-ness.

                90 BOOK ONE

    The physical universe, then, consists of matter, energy, space, time
and thought. And the time track consists of matter, energy, space, time
and thought. As the broadest classification that is the simplest
statement that can be made concerning the time track or the physical
universe. We can complicate it tremendously, we can get the
suppositional is-nesses, we can get the befores and afters. We can get
the purposes, the additive utilities, and the aesthetics.

    One can really go mad when one goes into aesthetics. The devil
whispered, "Is it art?" That devil is always standing alongside the
shoulder of every artist or anybody engaged in an artistic pursuit. The
little girl doing her sampler is saying, "I think that looks nice. And
I'm going to make it so-and-so and it's going to look nice." And she
looks at it and thinks "Yes, but is it artistic? Is it art?"

    You sometimes see a concert pianist beating his fingertips off at
the concert, and you very often are utterly astonished afterwards to
find out that he does not consider that this is art. He could do much
better, or he has done much better or he will do much better. But is he
doing better right now? You seldom find that he is ever doing better
right now. He's always on some suppositional kick.

    The degree that an individual is on a suppositional kick measures
directly his confrontingness, his ability to confront. The amount of
suppositional is-ness that is added to actual is-ness measures directly
the individual's ability to confront. That's a very involved and
complicated statement because it's almost too broad to embrace.

    For example, a fellow goes down and takes a look at a water color at
the art gallery and says, "He should have." That "should have" has
measured the amount of not confront he is doing of the water color.

    Therefore, you get into this in the area of criticalness, and speak
of people as being "high criticals." A very critical pc is a common term
amongst auditors. It's the degree that the pc is into suppositional and
not into is-ness that is critical. He is not confronting to the degree
that he is critical. From being a very esoteric statement it becomes a
very very interesting auditing tool, if you look at it just in its
bareboned fashion.

                WHAT IS THE MIND 91

    The pc says, "I suppose . . . but if at all . . ."

    You say, "What's happening?"

    "Well, it sort of looks here that it might have been." All these
things are quite acceptable and quite ordinary in auditing. "But it sort
of looks here, I don't know, some kind of a wreck out here. I think
there has been a wreck." It's quite ordinary to have him then find out
it's not even an airplane in front of him, but a building. He has given
you the suppositional. He hasn't given you the is-ness of it. The time
track straightens out and erases in direct ratio to the amount of
is-ness confronted by the pc. How sane and capable somebody gets is
measured directly by the amount of is-ness the individual is capable of
confronting. And he is having as hard a time as he is moving from
is-ness to suppositional.

    In view of the fact that a pc's track is in terrible condition,
there are two things at work. There are the pc's own feelings of
incompetence and there is the unrecognizableness of the track. These two
things come into combination to make a cat's breakfast. The pc is sure
that if he confronts it something horrible is going to happen. You see
it in the extremity of the pc who doesn't want to report for his
session. That is merely an expression that he's moved over into
suppositional to that great degree. He supposes that it's not
confrontable. He supposes that the auditor is not going to be able to do
anything for it. He supposes that the auditor won't be able to handle
it. All the time he's supposing, he's not confronting.

    Over a long long period of time the pc has come down the emotional
scale and sort of given up on the idea of being able to confront very
much. You can more or less measure this and call it state of morale.
It's quite volatile, it will shift with great rapidity. A thetan's state
is actually not pinned mechanically by anything. It's just where he is
and what he is doing. He's not made less of a thetan or more of a
thetan.

    But when you surround him with a tremendous amount of threat and
suppositional unconfrontabilities as intimate as the time track, he is
continuously enforced into a state of low morale. He doesn't think he
can do anything. As a matter of fact, he can't. It's part of the is-ness
of the

                92 BOOK ONE

situation. He knows what will happen. He's surrounded by
jack-in-the-boxes; he's touched this one time and it's knocked him flat,
and he's touched that and it's ruined something. He's touched something
else and it's blown him down. And his attention is still terribly fixed
on something else and he knows he mustn't take his attention off of
that. Then he also knows that if he doesn't take his attention off of
it, he's going to go to pieces. Then he's forgotten that he has his
attention on it. He's in a frightful state.

    He gets this feeling of degradation because of what he feels his
capability is. But then there's the actual state of the bank, which is
horrible. It looks like a bunch of mad theater managers have rushed in
and grabbed all of the motion pictures that have ever been shown and
mixed them up with a stick and set fire to them. A thetan is standing in
the middle of this debris, which hasn't even got a bright flame left in
it.

    There he is in the middle of this debris, and he knows that if he
moves or sparks or does anything, something horrible will occur. Every
bit of this has retained in full its command value over him. Just the
fact that he's standing in the middle of it is enough to depress him.

    But at the same time, it's all the old tin cans he's got. It has
value; it's all his knowingness, it's his record files. He's like
somebody who has become totally dependent on the record department, and
then the record department has been bombed. He can't even find out his
own name, rank and serial number without the record department. That
dependency and the reason that came about is also included in the record
department, so he can't even find that. It's all there.

    He's gone into a terrible state with regard to all this. It's
booby-trapped; it jumps apart if he puts a beam on it. He sort of feels
funny because there's a hand that vaguely shows out from underneath a
black plate, and he doesn't know whose hand it was, doesn't know where
it's from, doesn't know when it happened; but he knows he'd better keep
an eye on it.

    We've used other methods to approach this problem of the time track.
Amongst those other methods was exterior-

                WHAT IS THE MIND 93

ization:* "Try not to be three feet back of your head." I've
exteriorized people and had them lose their stammer, their aches and
pains, everything else.

    There was only one person I had trouble with when I exteriorized
him. It didn't cure his cough. Then we found out ~he~ was coughing.
There he was, fifty or sixty feet from the body, coughing. But he didn't
have a chest to cough with. The odd part of it is that the thetan is
free. You can have some fantastic experiences. But you can get a
synthetic state, a temporary, momentary state of a thetan which
approximates his actual state if he didn't have a bank, by
exteriorization.

    But that state doesn't last because the individual is in a state of
low morale at the time you did it and even though you get him away from
the bank, you've just taken him away from the central control office and
made him leave all of his files behind and he sort of thinks that those
files can be straightened out. He definitely knows that he must have
them in order to know anything. He goes along just so far and then he'll
jump or get scared or something will happen, and he'll snap back into
his head. You can do this to an individual two or three times, and then
he won't go exterior anymore. He's very suspicious about it.

    Everybody, however, can be made to exteriorize. If you've
exteriorized them out of the bank to a marked degree, of course, the
bank follows them. You can exteriorize somebody out of a body and then
exteriorize him out of his bank. Just tell him to be three feet back of
the mass that he's associated with. "Be three feet back of your head.
All right. You've got a black mass there? All right. That's fine. Be
three feet back of the black mass."

    The individual gets a foretaste of what it is like not to be pushed
in on all sides by these black masses, but it's a momentary foretaste.
Because he'll take his attention off what he thinks he should hold his
attention on, he'll collapse back into the bank, the bank collapses back
into the body, and then he says he doesn't want that experience again.
Actually, what it does is restimulate dying. This is more or less what
he does at death. But he takes the bank with him at death.

                94 BOOK ONE

    The only possession a thetan has consists of this bank. He really
doesn't own anything else at a moment of death on this planet due to the
laws of inheritance and other mechanisms. At various times on the track
a thetan has tried very hard to straighten this up so that when you died
you didn't lose everything. It has been more often true on the track
that you didn't lose everything than it has been that you did. A thetan
is actually conditioned into this and he considers it a considerable
deprivation. So he makes very sure he keeps that bank very close to him
because it's the only possession he knows he can hold on to. Yet it's in
a terrible state and he doesn't want it in that kind of state. It's
really no use to him, but he hopes it will be of use to him, and he
couldn't get away from it anyhow.

    You can do remarkable things exteriorizing people, but it is a
failure. You better know something about exteriorization; it'll always
help out an old buddy who's just been knocked down by a freight train or
something of the sort, and lies there gasping his last. Tell him to be
three feet back of his head, and go on his way. Suppose a person is in
perfectly good shape and has just accidentally fallen off the bridge and
drowned. They're working on him with Pulmotors, and he doesn't start
breathing again. If you happen to be around, and he hasn't been dead
very long, just say to him, "Hey! There's nothing wrong with the body.
Pick it up!" All of a sudden, he will start breathing again.

    Exteriorization is quite remarkable; it's part of the mechanics of
existence. But as far as a solid processing mechanism, it doesn't exist
as practical processing. This is a piece of the is-ness of existence.
Thetans do this kind of thing and you can do this kind of thing with
thetans. Once upon a time, whenever a thetan lost a body on Erxes he
went and picked up a new one at home base. He was always going back and
picking up a new body. But he didn't necessarily lose his identity.

    You'd be surprised at the searching security regulations which
sometimes would be stressed on somebody picking up a new body. You
didn't want enemy troops in there picking up one of your own uniform
bodies. "What's your name? Oh, do you know Joe? What's the name of the
bar at Yak Bung

                WHAT IS THE MIND 95

crossroads? You say you come from there. What's his favorite joke? Ah,
have this man shot."

    In fact, it is very, very unusual for a person to totally forget his
identity just by reason of death--and you haven't been doing it very
long. You don't lose your whole identity and everything you've ever been
just because you kicked the bucket.

    The way it's going now, thought is passing out of everything, and
the identity passes out, and the thetan not only loses his physical
universe possessions by reason of death, but he also loses his identity.
And he doesn't like that. He thinks this is a can't-have-no-have
proposition, and he's not in favor of this at all.

    Therefore, he tends to pull even more tightly on the time track.
He's been denied a new record, so he's grabbed this record. Everytime
somebody wanted to get even with him on the whole track somebody
booby-trapped the record. Somebody threw a bomb into the file room. That
was the way it was done.

    In the loony bin you can find people screaming about being jumped by
demons. "There's a great bird that comes every night and perches on the
bottom of the bed and pecks at me." The psychiatrist strokes his beard.
"This man's insane." Why is he insane? "He sees a bird." That's the end
of it. If he ~sees~, he's insane. This is just a further denial of
record. That's the way to really make them spin.

    A Scientologist would have an entirely different approach. He'd
probably tell his buddy, "What dub-in." But he would say to the person,
"Yes, what kind of a bird is it?" He would find out more about this
bird. And he's liable to find a honey of a series of incidents. But the
trouble is if you approach them from that bird you're liable to go
straight into one of the doggonedest, most awful messes that anybody had
anything to do with. You would pull him right into the middle of it.
He'll eventually collide with this bird in processing. It's not
necessarily at the start of his processing, however.

    You certainly don't invalidate the bird. That's the last thing you'd
better do. Because whatever it is, it is. He saw it

                96 BOOK ONE

so it is. We don't care whether other people agree that it is, or they
don't agree that it is.

    You should keep off these wild by-roads. Is reality really something
that everybody agrees to? It isn't. Because there are people around who
don't necessarily agree to the reality, so therefore it couldn't be that
that really isn't real. That's just a method of making it unreal for
somebody else.

    That reality is mutual in the physical universe is a miracle. It's
fantastic that it is a mutual reality. And that is the biggest proof of
its is-ness; its mutual reality.

    Banks have a mutuality, they're not necessarily all different. The
tricks that have been used to wreck the file room have not been very
many. And those that were really capable of messing up the film and
bending all the reels up and bashing the cans in had to be pretty
horrendous. It really took some doing.

    In Dianetic auditing, whether you're assessing a list, or running
engrams, you're handling the time track or a piece or a portion of the
time track. This fact has never been escaped because the only tried and
true approach to sanity and to recovered ability is to straighten out
the pc's time track. We have approached it in many ways. We have tried
to find out, "Who is mocking up this time track?" Obviously, the thetan
is mocking it up. But that's again a suppositional reality.

    It all comes back to the fact that those processes which effectively
handle and straighten out the time track--put something there to
confront, that is to say, untangle it enough so that it can be
confronted, and raise the pc's morale--are valid processes. (Remember it
isn't enough just to straighten up the track. You've got a pc there,
too, and if you lower his morale too much while straightening up his
track, the track doesn't straighten up because you're actually not
raising the thetan's confront at the same time. That's why processing
has to be rather delicate.)

    The only difficulty we get into is just this: the pc's suppositional
is-ness is so great because his confront is so low in this particular
zone. All the great savants of the field of the mind never even
suspected this track except Freud,

                WHAT IS THE MIND 97

and he said that the body contains some sort of a record or blueprint of
its immediate past.

    I consider it very interesting that he never went ahead and explored
it. He went into the suppositional reality that it made everybody
barbarians and very vicious people to have this.

    About 1914-15 there was a chap who remarked on the fact that there
was such a thing as an engram, that a moment of unconsciousness was
recorded all the way through. It's a very small portion of a book
printed back then. I heard about it around 1951.

    People stumble on this and they get out of there fast! They don't
want anything more to do with it after they trip over some corner of
this thing. It's like the two-dimensional worm trying to describe a
third dimension. Everything is flat. Yet here's this pole. And
occasionally one will say, "Well, you'll run into something if you go
across that particular side of the two-dimensional plate. You'll bump
your head." And others will say, "Well, it's impossible to bump your
head because there are only two dimensions." And then he replies, "Well,
then there's nothing there." It doesn't occur to most of them to say
there might be three dimensions. In such a way, that is-ness gets barred
out.

    We should examine how it does because it's a very simple answer. How
does the existence of the time track get completely wiped away? Why do
the great savants never remark on this particular piece of property
which can be found in any and every human being and the handling of
which is the only road that has ever been discovered which straightens
the person out?

    It's the same reason that you sometimes have trouble in an auditing
session. This is not one of the reasons he can't see the track, which is
pretty obvious due to the unavailabilities and the tricks of it. But the
suppositional reality of the pc who is sitting in front of you is very
low but very great. It just supposes. His "I guesses" about the track
are terribly thin. And you have to develop those things along a very
smooth line.

    The pc supposes he has a black mass in front of his face. He doesn't
~see~ the black mass. Actually, all you have to do is

                98 BOOK ONE

not make the track more solid for him, but just keep going around in the
area and take what the pc says, and keep working with it. This thing
will start to unravel, and the pc will come up, and you'll find less and
less supposition. He says after a while, "There ~is~ a black mass in
front of my face."

    If you're inexperienced in this line, the principal barrier that you
get is you suppose that because the pc is so vague you can't get
anything. So if you take it that the pc doesn't know what's there, then
you won't be able to find out what's there. You don't recognize that he
is just so far down on suppositional is-ness that he is not approaching
is-ness. Whatever the tricks of auditing are and how you audit engrams,
it is the process of gradient scale, familiarization. You've got to
raise the morale of the pc with regard to it, and raise the available
thing to confront.

    Familiarization with and running of the track tends to unravel it
and stretch it out and make it available to the pc. His morale comes up
at the same time and you get to an is-ness. It's ~all~ a gradient, from
Can't to Can.

    The pc says, "I don't know anything about this, I never heard of
such balderdash. I never heard of such a thing. It's such a horrible
thing."

    Very shortly afterwards he starts to look. After all, he's been
given a little piece of data, something to look at and he looks. And he
says, "Hey! By golly, it's there, you know." This makes him feel better.
He can see it. It is there to be seen. He looks at it a little bit more
and there's more there to be seen now. And then he feels better about
seeing, and there's now ~more~ to be seen because you've gone over and
developed the track.

    It's at once a problem of getting a viewer and a stack of pictures
together. You've got to get the viewer so he can see the pictures.
That's your Auditor's Code,* morale of a pc, coaxing him along and
giving him the right orders. That's for the pc. And then you go over the
technology of arranging the pictures. The way you arrange them is just
stroke them. That's all. Just stroke them enough times and stroke the
right picture. And say, "There, that's a nice picture. Yes, that's a
nice picture, there . . ." All of a sudden the pc says,

                WHAT IS THE MIND 99

"My God, there's my bird! Yes, that's familiar, that bird. There he is.
That's pretty good. Let's find out some more about this."

    If you've done it smoothly then the pc's morale is up so he can
look. And if you've handled the bank right, that's been rubbed up so
that it can be looked at. This gradient approach is terribly simple.
There really isn't anything very involved about it.

    In teaching people how to run engrams, they always want to know the
command with which you run an engram. All the rules of auditing have to
be obeyed. It gets to look pretty complicated after awhile, but it
isn't. You're running a touch assist* on a picture.

    Of course, your pc can't touch the picture and if he feels that you
won't let him touch the picture, he's going to have an awful hard time
touching it. Then if you don't give him the right picture to touch, of
course he can't touch that. And one of the big boons you have in
technology is that I've found out what pictures can be touched, which
then produce a tremendous resurge and start untangling his track. I have
found out what are the principal things that have the track snarled, and
which of them can be touched.

    What is snarled and what to touch to unsnarl it are two distinctly
different problems. The auditor tends to not confront to some slight
degree the fact that an engram contains pain and unconsciousness. He
doesn't want to inflict pain on the pc, of course. And, of course, you
can't see anything when you're unconscious. So all the great savants of
all history have simply remained unconscious of the engram and the time
track, unwilling to approach its pain and unconsciousness.

    That's why they have never said, since time immemorial, "Every being
has a time track." It's as elementary a piece of nonsense as that. They
say, "Well, you can't see it, and you can't do anything with it, and
there's really only thought in the head anyway." The time track is
unavailable to the being, so the savant supposes it is unavailable to
him. He doesn't want to have anything to do with that pain, so he leaves
it alone; and because there's unconsciousness in it, he remains
unconscious of it.

                100 BOOK ONE

    But the auditor mustn't fall for this. In the first place, I don't
think a thetan can go unconscious. I don't think there is a level at
which you could say absolute unconsciousness takes place. If you run
somebody through an engram, he might not remember what happened in the
incident. That doesn't mean he was unconscious in the incident. It just
means he can't remember what happened in the incident. He might have
been conscious all the way through.

    When you start running this thing through as an engram, all of a
sudden the pc finds out during those moments of unconsciousness he was
conscious of things going on. I suppose the only real "tragedy" of life
is that absolute unconsciousness and absolute unknowingness are
unobtainable.

    The auditor must realize that there is no slightest portion of that
time track that isn't available. He should go into no "I don't know
anything about it" simply because the thetan he's auditing, of course,
doesn't know anything about it. This is the expected state. He'd be a
Clear if he knew all about it. Then you're saying, "When he gets to be
Clear I'll give him a session."

    It's all by gradients. There's a great deal of technical information
about this. The reasons he can't view the track are very mechanical. I
don't think you would be very excited about viewing a door if every time
you walked up to the door it crashed open and broke your nose. After
awhile you would get out of the habit of walking up to this door. And
eventually you would say that door doesn't even exist and that you're
not going to go in that part of the room. Because the violence that is
contained on the time track cannot be underestimated.

    You can hit portions of the time track that'll kick a preclear right
out of his head if you forced him into them. So the pc may say, "Look, I
can't confront the bank. It's too tough for me." Therefore, it's
important not to give him losses early on. There are various approaches
of this kind. This is all very simple technical know-how.

    If you go into too much suppositional you'll have trouble. An
auditor has success in auditing if he has a good idea of the mechanics
of engrams and the time track. If he

                WHAT IS THE MIND 101

knows what this is all about, he will be in there sailing. A person who
keeps asking for a rote command is a person who doesn't know the
mechanics of what he's auditing.

    Giving a double command is the most serious thing in engram running,
as it confuses the pc. Suppose I said to a preclear, "Go to the
beginning of the incident when you go to the end of the incident because





the beginning of the incident is a place where we don't start." And then
got provoked with him because he didn't execute the auditing command. I
certainly wouldn't have known very much about the bank to do something
like that.

    This is another gross error: an auditor says to the preclear, "Go to
the beginning of the incident where the birds are." (He doesn't know the
mechanics and behavior of an engram.) It seems like a perfectly innocent
command. This is a mistake almost anybody would make. The beginning of
the incident ~was~ where the birds are. That was the beginning of the
incident half an hour ago. So the auditor thinks that while he handles
an engram nothing happens.

    He thinks nothing is ever going to change. So he thinks the birds
are going to be the beginning of this incident from here on out. The
birds are NEVER the beginning of the incident, even the second time. So
the auditor says, "Go to the beginning of the incident," and then
suddenly gives this command, "Go to the beginning of the incident where
the birds are." Go to the birds. Go to the beginning of the incident.

    He asks the pc "What's the matter?"

    The pc replies, "What do you want me to do? Do you want me to go to
the beginning of the incident or go where the birds are?"

    The pc gets all fogged up and can't give the data very well. He just
neglected to tell the auditor that there was an incident the day before
the birds arrived, when there was an edict issued that you mustn't shoot
any birds. He's just discovered this and made mention of it, but the
auditor didn't get its time, and didn't realize that was the day before.
That is now the beginning of the incident. He's told the pc to go 24
hours deep in the incident while going to the beginning of the incident.
And the pc gets very, very confused.

                102 BOOK ONE

    The bank follows the hop-skip-jump,
you-think-you're-there-and-you're-there system of a thetan. When you
move ~to~ the end, you're at the end.

    The only difficulties you could have with engram running is just
lack of appreciation of exactly what it is you're handling. It is not a
matter of the rote command. It's a matter of understanding exactly what
is this thing called the time track, and exactly what are you handling
in the individual, exactly what keeps you from handling it, and what
permits you to handle it. When you get that sorted out, all this becomes
very, very easy.

    Although finding and curtailing the development of the time track at
genus is not improbable, the ability of the preclear to attain it early
on is questionable without reducing the charge* on the existing track.
Therefore, any system which reduces the charged condition of the time
track without reducing but increasing the awareness and decisionability
of the preclear is valid processing. Any system which seeks to handle
the charge but reduces the preclear's awareness and decisionability is
not valid processing but is degrading.

    According to early axioms, the single source of aberration is time.
Therefore any system which further confuses or overwhelms the preclear's
sense of time will not be beneficial.

    Thus the first task of the student of engram running is to master
the handling of time on the preclear's time track. It must be handled
without question, uncertainty or confusion.

    Failing to handle the time in the preclear's time track with
confidence, certainty and without error will result in grouping or
denying the time track to the preclear.


¤Valences¤


    Another interesting facet of the mind is valences.

    Amongst the several types of valences the least suspected and most
interesting in terms of processing is the "synthetic valence."

                WHAT IS THE MIND 103

    By synthetic valence we mean those valences which have never
actually confronted the preclear in the flesh. The first valence is of
course the preclear's "own valence," which is his own concept of
himself. The next is the valence additive to him by the characteristics
of his body. The next is the direct valence by which he has transferred
identity with someone who has directly confronted him and following this
there is the attention valence, the valence one has assumed because it
got attention from another valence. And at the end of this list there is
the synthetic valence and of all of them this is the most baffling.

    The greatest historical example of this is probably Charles XII of
Sweden who read "The Romance of Alexander" by Pseudo-Calisthenes and
became so much an Alexander that he spent the remainder of his days
attacking Russia in an effort to emulate his hero. Charles XII had never
confronted Alexander, he had only been told about Alexander, but he had
nevertheless assumed the valence of Alexander in most of his activities.

    The little boy who looks at television and sees the cowboy in the
white hat triumphing over all, or who sees Superman in the comic books
and then assumes these identities, is actually doing more or less a
direct transfer. Where he is simply told about these and has never been
confronted with any form of any kind to corroborate the telling, he
would have a case of synthetic valence. He has been read to about Tom
Sawyer and becomes Tom Sawyer without ever seeing Tom Sawyer or looking
at Tom Sawyer. This would be a case of synthetic valence.

    We get the synthetic valence in many amusing and non-aberrative
games conditions and here it is not much of a problem. But the synthetic
valence can become an evil genius in a case when it has been carefully
and expressly tailored as an alteration from the direct valence which
might have occurred. As an example of this we have the case of the
father who, in the mother's absence or even when she is sporadically
present, tells the children consistently and continually what a bad
mother they have. Father continually describes mother as a certain type
of character and the

                104 BOOK ONE

children are then adjured not to transfer into this type of character.
Naturally, resisting it, they do not actually transfer into mother's
valence, but transfer into a synthetic valence of mother.

    In the case where mother, let us say, ran away or was lost to the
family early in the child's life, he may have no real recollection of
mother but may have a synthetic valence of mother. This becomes very
difficult to run because it is run mainly on a sonic level. As another
example, one is told consistently and continually that all men of force
or all conquerors are bad and one is warned never to become a conqueror.
This is of course an excellent way to make nothing out of an individual,
but here we have a false valence--a personality which never existed--and
we discover in the lives of the conquerors that they actually were not
totally possessed of bad characteristics. In order to dominate his
fellow beings to the marked extent necessary in a conqueror, one could
not possess totally bad characteristics, and the actual character of
most conquerors is quite different than the assigned character given
them by the society--a fact which does not make a conqueror any less
liable for the crimes he commits, but which gives us an insight into the
tailor-making of characters who never lived.

    The keynote of all synthetic valences is that a character has been
developed or created more or less out of whole cloth, possibly with some
small foundation, but certainly with exaggeration, which puts into
existence a being who never breathed or coughed or spat. The police and
newspapers are continually doing this. You actually don't know whether
the criminals who have been arrested by the police and tried in the
newspapers were the people who were arrested or not, since they are
assigned a synthetic valence and are condemned as very bad people
indeed. Of course some of these criminals were or are bad, but the
chances are that amongst this legion of people arrested and tried in the
newspapers there were some who were quite deserving men and whose actual
character and behavior did not even vaguely compare with the represented
character.

                WHAT IS THE MIND 105

    We have a flagrant case of synthetic valences when newspapers and
other public media and even word-of-mouth gossip begin to tear to pieces
anyone's character and put in its place some synthetic understanding
which was never a real person. In this way we begin to believe there are
many more bad people in the world than there are.

    In my own experience with bad men--and I have met several of various
nationalities--I have seen some men who could put up a rather ferocious
front, but I have never found one of them totally lacking in human
warmth. Yet were I to read the newspapers and popular books on such
people I would begin to believe it would be possible for a complete
demon to exist who would never respond to any decent impulse. Yet I have
even argued bandits into a more amenable state of mind. In other words,
you can actually create an effect on almost anybody. The synthetic
valence is an effort to tell you and others that beings can exist who
are so bad that no effect can be produced on them. Of course this makes
everybody subservient to them.

    The greatest historical example of this was the invention of the
devil by the Persian priests who were called together to synthesize a
new religion for Persia. The devil they invented there was borrowed
later on by the Christians and was set up as something so evil that
nothing could affect it. The devil of course is the championship
synthetic valence of all time. There are no devils upon whom one cannot
produce an effect.


¤Summary¤


    When you are running Dianetic secondaries and engrams, you are
handling the human mind. Added to that then is the valence as another
picture, and a machine, and that comprises the whole human mind. There
is nothing else there. That was a basic discovery in Dianetics.

    We probably know more phenomena about Dianetic auditing than any
other single activity. Now somebody will tell you that it's very, very
bad to fool about with the mind, but in actual fact any Dianetic
auditing is better than no Dianetic auditing.

                106 BOOK ONE

    I have never seen anything really more interesting in the realm of
human endeavor and activities than Dianetic auditing. It is the champion
of all time. It's a tremendous amount of fun. It does fantastic things.

    The amount of benefit to be regained from running half a dozen
engrams exceeds anything that Man has ever been able to do for anybody
in the history of the human race.


                CHAPTER 5

                DIANETIC USE

    For many years, 1950 onward, a Dianetic auditor was proudly capable
of resolving mental and physical problems by his ability to find and run
engrams.

    The Dianetic auditor has no other skill or tools than his
understanding of mental image pictures, such as locks, secondaries and
engrams and the time track.

    With these tools he produces many miracles. Broken bones heal in two
weeks instead of six, withered limbs restore, burns vanish, swellings
reduce visibly to nothing, lives wrecked by grief and loss recover,
women lose their aging wrinkles, and sought after abilities return.

    Dianetic training is usually one month in length and attains a high
percentage of successful graduates who can attain excellent results.

    Dianetics operates at the level of the human being and is addressed
mainly to the body and mind. It does not attempt and should not be
confused with the end product of Scientology which is spiritual freedom.
The end product of Dianetics is a well, happy, high IQ human being.

                108 BOOK ONE

    Dianetics is itself and has its place. When one can handle Dianetics
so as to make people well and happy, one can then begin to think of and
work on the higher aspects of Scientology.

    To attempt to obtain the results of Scientology by applying only
Dianetics is in fact a confusion of objectives.

    The Dianetic auditor, whether the "very best people" behind
governments like it or not, is the natural inheritor of all mental
healing.

    Working in conjunction with bonafide physical healers such as the
actual practicing medical doctor, the Dianetic auditor, with only the
skills taught on the Hubbard Standard Dianetics course, could all but
eradicate psychosomatic illness and mental illness on this planet. Tens
of thousands of cases in Dianetics show this is no idle boast. The
breakthrough showing most insanity is common physical illness untreated
adds up to making such an objective a fact.

    The role of Dianetics, let us face it, is that of a spiritual
healing technology. It is the most advanced mental science Man has. It
should not be skimped or scanted.

    A good Dianetic auditor can handle the bulk of psychosomatic illness
and speed the healing of ordinary illness or make it possible for the
person to recover. Mental aberration as such can be handled in Dianetics
if it works in conjunction with other valid branches of physical
healing.

    There is then a demarcation between Dianetics and Scientology. The
Dianetic auditor's skills reach up to and include a well happy human
being. This is in excess of Man's hope of any mental technology.

    The Scientology auditor is working for increased ability and
spiritual freedom. And that is far in excess of any dream or
accomplishment Man has had, including Buddhism.

    When we get a sick human being being handled to make him spiritually
free we get a confusion and are likely to fail.

    The Scientology auditor who is also a good basic Dianetics auditor
can make that being well enough, using Dianetics and available healing
skills, to succeed with Scientology objectives. But there is a vast
difference between Dianetics and Scientology.

                DIANETIC USE 109

    A Dianetic preclear is one who is being processed toward the
objective of a well and happy human being. A Scientology preclear is a
well happy human being who is being processed toward total ability and
spiritual freedom.

    Those two definitions should be well learned. It will prevent much
confusion.

    ~I~ would never never never audit a pc on Scientology processes if I
found before me a sick person. I would simply change gears, get busy
with Dianetics and use physical healers if necessary to get a well happy
pc before me. ~Then~ I would go on with Scientology processing.

    Scientology objectives are so far above anything Man has any hope
for that he at once thinks of them as healing activities. They are not.

    Dianetics is a spiritual healing activity.

    Therefore all Dianetic course materials have that objective fully in
view. And when a Scientology auditor finds himself with a Dianetic
preclear on his hands and if that auditor learned his Dianetics well,
then he will apply Dianetics and when the preclear is ready for it, only
then will he apply Scientology.

    The basic use of Dianetics is to make a well body and to augment
physical treatment.

    Any injurious experience can be erased by Dianetics. It is very easy
to use and if one wants people well and happy it should be used at every
occasion.

    A person has an operation. This should be followed soon after by the
erasure of the engram of the experience and by the usual Dianetic
auditor actions. The healing time will be greatly speeded and often
healing will occur where a relapse might have followed.

    A woman has a child. The engram of delivery should be run out soon
after. The result of doing so is very spectacular. There is no "post
partum psychosis" or dislike of the child and no permanent injury to the
mother. It is in fact best to audit the mother both before and after the
delivery, which gives one fast, relatively painless childbirth and quick
recovery.

                110 BOOK ONE

    Recovery from disease under treatment is speeded by Dianetic
auditing.

    A broken limb will heal (by X-ray evidence) in two instead of six
weeks.

    Some patients who are not responding to medical treatment, who are
given even basic Dianetic auditing, will ~then~ be found responsive to
the medical treatment. An auditor giving the person a Dianetics session
will more or less ensure that the medical treatment will now work.

    A person who is accident-prone when audited usually loses this
unwanted characteristic.

    Many "insane" recover from their symptoms when given proper medical
treatment, rest, no harrassment and then good mild Dianetic processing.
They become and remain normal people without relapse.

    Chronic, which is to say, long-term illnesses cease when audited by
Dianetics and then medical treatment which was earlier ineffective.

    Whole classes of "mentally retarded" children have been made more
normal by teachers in London County Council schools using relatively
unskilled Dianetics.

    Tiredness, unwanted sensations, bizarre pains and aches, bad hearing
or sight also routinely respond to Dianetic processing.

    The sickness and death rate of persons who are part of Dianetic
groups is only a small fraction of that of other groups.

    Pilots audited with Dianetics, by a test involving a whole squadron,
went without a single even minor accident for the following year.

    Scientists audited with Dianetics have greatly improved
intelligence. Dianetics raises IQ in addition to usual auditing, at a
rate of about one point of IQ per hour of processing.

    Withered limbs, skin blotches and rashes and even blindness and
deafness have all responded to Dianetics.

    Possibly the point which was raised against Dianetics in the early
attacks on it was that it did a vast array of things. The truth was, it
actually did them. When you have the answer to the human mind as in
Dianetics, of course anything caused by the mind can be remedied.

                DIANETIC USE 111

    It is very much easier to train a Dianetic than a Scientology
auditor. It requires only about a month to make a Dianetic auditor who
is sufficiently conversant with the subject to get results. This too was
used against Dianetics as the psychiatrist of that day claimed he
himself needed twelve years of study to do psychiatry. Of course when
the public found out that the result of these twelve years of study was
killing the "insane" and increasing their numbers, the argument became
silly.

    You use Dianetics much the same way you would use any remedy. When a
fellow is burned you audit out the burn. When a woman loses a loved one
you audit out the loss. When a young man can't finish his schooling you
audit out his unhappy school experiences.

    Dianetics is for USE. There is not a lot of administration* about
it. It isn't something you use after bowing down three times to Chicago.
You just USE it.

    A Dianetic auditor who sees someone sick and who doesn't get him
treatment and then audit him is just not humane.

    Woman going to have a baby--get out the E-meter and audit her into
shape for it. When she's had it, run out the delivery.

    Fellow burns his hand, break out the meter.

    Dianetics must be preserved and used in all cases of psychosomatic
illness or in physical suffering.

    People will ask "Deafness? Now what special process is needed in
curing deafness . . .?"

    This is one of the refinements of Dianetics. One runs whatever is
real to the preclear. He doesn't decide to cure somebody of deafness. He
handles the illness that reacts on the meter, and in which the pc is
interested. Maybe it will be deafness.

    Having gotten the pc well by medical care and Dianetic auditing,
~then~ start out with Scientology. If he gets sick again before long,
revert to Dianetics, handle it and then when he is well, resume
Scientology where you left off.

    ~Never~ run a Scientology process to make a preclear well or cure
something. It's a misapplication.

                112 BOOK ONE

    By ~using~ Dianetics as readily as you use shoes, you can make and
keep people well.

    By then correctly using Scientology we can make the person a far
better being.

    We have STANDARD DIANETICS.

    We have standard Scientology technology.

    Both are valid as themselves.

    They do not cross.

    Dianetics for the body.

    Scientology for the spirit.

    If it is a body pain, sensation, somatic, illness, disability, the
subject to use is Dianetics.

    If it is a gain in ability and beingness that is the purpose, the
subject to use is Scientology.

    After many years of handling cases this emerged as a very factual
fact. Dianetics is Dianetics, Scientology is Scientology.

    See these two subjects as clearly separate. They each have their own
case supervision* orders. You don't use Scientology case supervision
orders in case supervising Dianetics. And you don't use the Dianetic
rules on Scientology.

    One addresses the body, the other the thetan. They both go by their
own rules.

    Dianetic results are a well body and a being happy with it.

    Scientology results are a free, powerful and immortal being.

    They can and do achieve their proper end results but only when used
properly, separately and as themselves.


¤The Psychiatrist At Work¤


    Auditors are often fought by psychiatry. The auditor is often called
upon to handle psychiatric abuses. Auditors should know some facts about
psychiatry.

    As a technical action, it is of interest to any auditor to know that
pain and ideas are a basic "therapy" used down the years by
psychiatrists and such lot.

    The practice is very general and very old.

                DIANETIC USE 113

    The person is made to associate his "wrong ideas" with pain so that
he "will not have these ideas," or will be "prevented from doing these
things."

    A crude current example is to electric shock a person every time he
smokes a cigarette. After several "treatments" he is supposed to
associate the pain with the idea and so "give up smoking."

    Homosexual tendencies are also so "treated."

    In earlier times alcoholism was "cured" by putting poison in drinks
so drinking would make the person violently ill so he would "stop it."

    Examples of this are all over the time track.

    The mechanism is, "If you get this idea, you will feel this pain."
ZAP!

    Basically this is the action of an implanter.*

    Current use of it will be encountered where psychiatry has been busy
implanting.

    This is a pinnacle, an all, of psychiatric "treatment."

    Another version of it is drugs. Make the person too torpid
(sluggish) to have ~any~ ideas. The motto of this is "too dead to act."
Institutions are emptied by hooking psychotics and "community
psychiatry" exists "to make them take their pills." In short, to keep
them hooked. This started the current drug craze that has spread into
"illegal" drugs.

    The psychiatrist if he handled his field well and did really
effective work would have a ~declining~ insanity and crime statistic.

    That the psychiatrist and his "technology" has been in charge during
the whole period of these alarming statistics is ignored by governments.

    The psychiatrist argues that he needs more money and more
practitioners. But he gets money by the billion. The state has to
totally support them because the public will have nothing to do with
them.

    Psychiatry is collecting more than $44,107,306,153 a year for
ruining hundreds of thousands of people.

    Psychiatric treatment runs more than five times the total cost of
every course, grade and action available in Scientology churches and
missions.

                114 BOOK ONE

    Any Hubbard Apprentice Scientologist knows more and can do more
about the mind than any psychiatrist.

    The auditor will encounter this with growing frequency as the
business of it is so big that one group spends 12 billion in advertising
alone per year! They also spend vast sums in lobbying parliaments.

    Most "got to's" or obsessions come from pain association or drug
association.

    People in pain or when drugged can become obsessed with ~doing~ the
idea.

    What the psychiatrist does not care to publicize is that his "cures"
consist of implanting with compulsive ideas.

    The smoker so treated now MUST smoke but CAN'T smoke. These two
things are opposed. That is known as frustration--a form of insanity.

    Must reach-can't reach, must withdraw-can't withdraw is total basic
insanity.

    Thus psychiatry is ~making~ insane people.

    This is why the insanity statistic is soaring and why the crime
statistic is on a wild climb.

    There is no real level of comparison since psychiatry as used is a
destructive technology.

    Under a "drug treatment" engram you often find savage electric
shocks of execution strength buried.

    It is doubtful if one could watch an electric shock "treatment"
without vomiting.

    In "neurosurgery" the ice pick is used to rip and tear up people's
brains.

    Holes are drilled in skulls and the brain sliced up.

    No evidence exists that this ever helped anyone but it makes
incurable invalids.

    Illegal seizure of anyone and his torture is legal in most
"civilized countries."

    The psychiatrist has masters. His principle organization, World
Federation of Mental Health, and its members, the National Associations
of Mental Health, the "American" Psychiatric Association and the
"American" Psychological Association are directly connected to Russia.

    Even the British Broadcasting Corporation has stated that psychiatry
and the KGB (Russian Secret Police) operate in direct collusion.

                DIANETIC USE 115

    A member of the World Federation of Mental Health sits on every
major "Advisory Council" of the United States government, to name one
government.

    Ministers of Health or Health Authorities are members of the
National Association or the World Federation of Mental Health.

    All these statements are the subject of total documentation in the
hands of Scientology.

    The auditor in auditing uncovers considerable data in former
psychiatric cases.

    Further, an auditor can put to rights a case so abused unless a
fatal injury has been done.

    As psychiatry circulates rumors about auditors and attempts to
discourage the use of Dianetics and Scientology, it is only fair for the
auditor to know exactly the status of psychiatry and psychology as used
today.

    It goes without saying that the savagery and fraud of psychiatry
must cease and that auditors must encourage in state and public and
through all his connections displacing psychiatric abuses with sane
auditing.

    Dianetics is the answer to human suffering.

    USE it.


                BOOK TWO


                Auditor's Code

            (~In celebration of the 100% gains attainable by Standard
            Tech~)

        I hereby promise as an auditor to follow the Auditor's Code:

  1.   I promise not to evaluate for the preclear or tell him what he
        should think about his case* in session.

  2.   I promise not to invalidate the preclear's case or gains in or
        out of session.

  3.   I promise to administer only Standard Tech to a preclear in the
        standard way.

  4.   I promise to keep all auditing appointments once made.

  5.   I promise not to process a preclear who has not had sufficient
        rest and who is physically tired.

  6.   I promise not to process a preclear who is improperly fed or
        hungry.

  7.   I promise not to permit a frequent change of auditors.

  8.   I promise not to sympathize with a preclear but to be effective.

  9.   I promise not to let the preclear end session on his own
        determinism but to finish off those cycles I have begun.

10.   I promise never to walk off from a preclear in session.

11.   I promise never to get angry with a preclear in session.

12.   I promise to run every major case action to a floating needle.

13.   I promise never to run any one action beyond its floating needle.

14.   I promise to grant beingness to the preclear in session.

15.   I promise not to mix the processes of Scientology with other
        practices except when the preclear is physically ill and only
        medical means will serve.

16.   I promise to maintain communication with the preclear and not to
        cut his comm or permit him to overrun in session.

17.   I promise not to enter comments, expressions, or enturbulence*
        into a session that distract a preclear from his case.

18.   I promise to continue to give the preclear the process or auditing
        command when needed in the session.

19.   I promise not to let a preclear run a wrongly understood command.

20.   I promise not to explain, justify or make excuses in session for
        any auditor mistakes whether real or imagined.

21.   I promise to estimate the current case state of a preclear only by
        standard case supervision data and not to diverge because of
        some imagined difference in the case.

22.   I promise never to use the secrets of a preclear divulged in
        session for punishment or personal gain.

23.   I promise to see that any fee received for processing is refunded
        if the preclear is dissatisfied and demands it within three
        months after the processing, the only condition being that he
        may not again be processed or trained.

24.   I promise not to advocate Scientology only to cure illness or only
        to treat the insane, knowing well it was intended for spiritual
        gain.

25.   I promise to cooperate fully with the legal churches of Dianetics
        and Scientology as developed by L. Ron Hubbard in safeguarding
        the ethical use and practice of the subject according to the
        basics of Standard Tech.

26.   I promise to refuse to permit any being to be physically injured,
        violently damaged, operated on or killed in the name of
        "mental treatment."

27.   I promise not to permit sexual liberties or violation of the
        mentally unsound.

28.   I promise to refuse to admit to the ranks of practitioners any
        being who is insane.

                CHAPTER 1

                THE MAGIC OF
                COMMUNICATION

    You will find that the magic of communication is about the only
thing that makes auditing work.

    The thetan in this universe has begun to consider himself mest* and
has begun to consider himself mass and the being that considers himself
mass of course responds to the laws of electronics.

    An individual considers himself massy and therefore he has to have a
second terminal. A second terminal is required to discharge the energy.

    Here we have two poles. We have an auditor and a pc and as long as
the auditor audits and the pc replies we get an exchange of energy from
the pc's point of view.

    Many auditors think they are being a second terminal to the degree
that they pick up the somatics and illnesses of the pc. Actually there
is no backflow of any kind that hits the auditor, but if he is so
convinced that he is MEST he will turn on somatics in echo of the pc.
Actually nothing hits the auditor, it has to be mocked up or envisioned
by him.

                120 BOOK TWO

    You have set up in essence a two-pole system and that will bring
about an as-ising of mass.

    It isn't burning the mass, it is as-ising the mass and that's why
there is nothing hitting the auditor.

    Now that is the essence of the situation. The magic involved in
auditing is contained in the communication cycle of auditing. You see
now you are handling a SMOOTH INTERCHANGE BETWEEN THESE
TWO POLES.

    When you look over the difficulties of auditing realize that you are
handling simply the difficulties of the communication cycle and when you
yourself as the auditor do ~not~ permit A SMOOTH FLOW BETWEEN YOU
AS A TERMINAL AND THE PC AS A TERMINAL, AND THE PC AS A TERMINAL
BACK TO YOU, you get a no as-ising of mass.

    Part of the trick of course is what has to be as-ised and how do you
go about it, but that we call technique (what button* has to be
pressed). The person who is insisting continuously upon a new technique
is neglecting the ~basic~ tool of his auditing which is ~the
communication cycle of auditing~.

    When the communication cycle does not exist in an auditing session,
we get this horrible compounding of a felony of trying to get a
technique to work but the technique cannot be administered because there
is no communication cycle to administer it.

    Basic auditing is called ~basic auditing~ because it goes PRIOR to
the technique.

    A communication cycle ~must exist~ before the technique can exist.

    The fundamental entrance to the case is not on a level of the
technique but is on a level of the communication cycle.

    Communication is simply a familiarization process based on reach and
withdraw.

    When you speak to a pc you are reaching. When you cease to speak you
are withdrawing. When he hears you, he's at that moment a bit withdrawn
but then he reaches toward you with the answer.

    You'll see him go into a withdraw while he thinks it all over. Then
he reaches the reason. Now he will reach the auditor with the reason and
he will say that was it.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 121

    You have made an exchange from the pc to the auditor and will see it
reflect on the meter because that exchange now is giving an as-ising of
energy.

    IN THE ABSENCE OF ~THAT~ COMMUNICATION YOU DO NOT GET METER ACTION.

    So THE FUNDAMENTAL OF AUDITING IS THE COMMUNICATION CYCLE. ~That's~
the fundamental of auditing and that is really the ~great~ discovery of
Dianetics and Scientology.


~Auditing Comm Cycle~


    The following is the AUDITING comm cycle.

    An auditor runs the session. He gives the pc the session action
without pulling the pc's attention heavily on the auditor. He does ~not~
leave the pc inactive or floundering without anything to do. He does not
leave the pc to make a session out of it. The auditor makes the session.
He doesn't wait for the pc to run down like a clock.

    The auditor runs the session. He knows what to do everything that
can happen.

    And this is the auditing comm cycle that is ~always~ in use.

    1. Is the pc ready to receive the command? (appearance, presence)

    2. Auditor gives command/question to pc (cause, distance, effect).

    3. Auditor observes that pc received the command.

    4. Pc looks to bank for answer (Itsa maker line).

    5. Pc receives answer from bank.

    6. Pc gives answer to auditor (cause, distance, effect).

    7. Auditor acknowledges pc.

    8. Auditor sees that pc received acknowledgment (attention).

    9. New cycle beginning with 1.


¤The Three Important Communication Lines¤


    When you are sitting in an auditing session what are the most
important communication ~lines~ and what is their ~order of importance?~
These lines are:

    a. The pc's line to his bank. The ~Itsa* Maker~ line.

                122 BOOK TWO

    b. The pc's line to the auditor. The ~Itsa~ line.

    c. The auditor's line to the pc. The ~What's-it~ line.*

    Now the definition, "~Willing~ to talk to the auditor" is very easy
to interpret as "~Talking~ to the auditor."

    So the auditor ~cuts the pc's communication line~ with his bank in
order to ~bring about~ an Itsa line--and then he wonders why he gets no
meter action and why the pc ARC breaks.

    This cut communication line is not perceivable to the naked eye.
It's hidden because it's from the pc--a thetan unseen by the auditor--to
the pc's bank--unseen by the auditor.

    The auditor is simply there to use the What's-it line in order to
get the pc to confront his bank.

    The itsa line is a report on what has been as-ised, that gives it
its flow.

    The ~sequence~ of use of these lines in an auditing cycle is c, a,
and then b.

    If you violate one of these communication lines of course you are
going to get into trouble which causes a mishmash of one kind or
another.

    There is another communication cycle inside the auditing cycle and
that is at the point of the pc. It's a little additional one and that's
the one between the pc and himself. This actually can be multiple as it
depends upon the complications of the mind. This line is the hardest to
detect when it isn't being done.

    Let's delineate the communication cycles involved in an auditing
cycle.

    A communication cycle consists of just: cause, distance, effect,
with intention, attention and duplication. How many of these are there
in an auditing cycle? You'd have to answer that with how many
~principal~ ones there are. If a pc indicates that he didn't get the
command, the auditor would give a repeat of it and that would add more
communication cycles to the auditing cycle--because there was a flub. So
anything unusual that happens in a session adds to the number of
communication cycles in the auditing cycle, but they are still part of
the auditing cycle.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 123

    Repetitive commands as an auditing cycle, is doing the same cycle
over and over again.

    Now there is a completely ~different~ cycle. The pc is going to
originate and it's got ~nothing to do~ with the auditing cycle. The only
thing they have in common is that they both use communication cycles.
The pc says something that is not germane to what the auditor is saying
or doing and you actually have to be alert for this happening at any
time and the way to prepare for it is just to realize that it can happen
at any time.

    It has nothing to do with the auditing cycle. Maybe the auditing
cycle went to pieces and this origination cycle came in. Well, the
auditing cycle can't complete because this origin cycle is now here.
That doesn't mean that this origin cycle has precedence or dominance but
it can start and take place and has to be ~finished off~ before the
auditing cycle can resume.

    So this is an interruptive cycle and it is cause, distance and
effect.

    The auditor has to understand what the pc is talking about and then
acknowledge. There is a little line where the pc indicates he is going
to say something. The effect at the auditor's point is to shut up and
let him. There can be another little line where the auditor indicates he
is listening. Then there is the origination, the auditor's
acknowledgement of it and then there is the perception of the fact that
the pc received the acknowledgement.

    That's your origination cycle.

    An auditor should draw all these cycles out on a scrap of paper and
all of a sudden it will become very straight how these things are and
you won't have a couple of them jammed up. What's mainly wrong with a
person's ~auditing cycle~ is that he has confused a couple of these
~communication cycles~ to such a degree that he doesn't differentiate
that they exist. That's why the auditor sometimes chops a pc who is
trying to answer the question.

    The auditor knows whether the pc has answered ~the~ question or not.
How does he know? Even if it's telepathy it's ~cause, distance, effect~.
It doesn't matter how that

                124 BOOK TWO

communication took place, he knows whether he's answered the command by
a ~communication cycle~. I don't care how he senses this.

    If you are nervy on the subject of handling the basic tool of
auditing and if that gives you trouble (and it can get you into trouble)
then it should be broken down and analyzed.

    I've given you a general pattern for an auditing cycle, maybe in
working it over you can find a couple of extra communication cycles in
the thing. But they are all there and if you made someone go through
each one painstakingly you would find out where his auditing cycle is
jammed up. It isn't necessarily jammed up on his ability to say, "Thank
you." It may well be jammed up in another quarter.


¤The Two Parts of Auditing¤


    In order to do something for somebody you have to have a
communication line to that person.

    Communication lines depend upon reality and communication and
affinity and where an individual is too demanding the affinity tends to
break down slightly.

    Processing goes in two stages:

    1. To get into communication with the person you are trying to
process.

    2. Do something ~for~ him.

    There is many a pc who will go around raving about his auditor,
whose auditor has not done anything ~for~ the pc. All that has happened
is that a tremendous communication line has been established with the pc
and this is so novel and so strange to the pc that he then considers
that something miraculous has occurred.

    Something miraculous ~has~ occurred but in this particular instance
the auditor has totally neglected ~why~ he formed that communication
line in the first place. He formed it in the first place to ~do~
something for the pc.

    He very often mistakes the fact that he has formed a communication
line, and the reaction on the pc for his having formed one, with having
~done~ something for the pc.

    There are two stages

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 125

[picture#29]

    1. Is the pc ready to receive the command?

    2. Auditor gives command to pc.

                126 BOOK TWO

[picture#30]

    3. Auditor observes that pc received the command.

    4. Pc looks to bank for answer.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 127

[picture#31]

    5. Pc receives answer from bank.

    6. Pc gives answer to auditor.

                128 BOOK TWO

[picture#32]

    7. Auditor acknowledges pc.

    8. Auditor sees that pc received acknowledgment.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 129

    1. Form a communication line

    2. Do something for the pc.

    Those are the two distinct stages. It is something like (1) walking
up to the bus, and (2) driving off. If you don't drive off you don't go
anyplace.

    It is a very tricky and no small thing to be able to communicate to
a human being who has never been communicated to before. This is quite
remarkable, and is such a remarkable feat that it appears to be an
end-all of Scientology to some.

    But you see that's just walking up to the bus. Now you have got to
~go~ someplace.

    Any upset that the individual has is so poised, it is so delicately
balanced that it is difficult to maintain. It is very hard to remain
batty. A fellow has to work at it.

    If your communication line is ~very~ good and ~very~ smooth and if
your auditing discipline is ~perfect~ so you don't upset this
communication line and if you just made a foray of no more importance
than saying something like--"What are you doing that's sensible and why
is it sensible?"--and kept your communication line up all the while and
kept your affinity up with the pc all the while, did it with perfect
discipline, you would see more aberration fall to pieces per square inch
than you ever thought could exist.

    Now that's what I mean when I say ~do something for the pc~.

    You must audit well, get ~perfect~ discipline and get your
communication cycle ~in~. Don't ARC break the pc, let your cycles of
action ~complete~.

    All of that is simply an entrance. You see, the discipline of
Dianetics and Scientology makes it possible to do this, and one of the
reasons that other fields of the mind could never get near anybody was
because they couldn't communicate to anybody.

    So that discipline is ~important~.

    That is the ladder that goes up to the door and if you can't get to
the door you can't do anything.

    The perfect discipline of which we speak, the perfect auditor
presence, perfect meter reading--all of those things

                130 BOOK TWO

are just to get you in a state where you ~can~ do something for
somebody.

    So when you're real slow picking up the discipline, real slow
picking up keeping in the communication cycle, when you're pokey on the
subject you are still 9 miles from the door. You're not even attending
yet.

    What you want to be able to do is audit ~perfectly~. By that we mean
keep in a communication cycle, be able to approach the pc, be able to
talk to the pc, and be able to ~maintain~ the ARC. Get the pc to give
you ~answers~ to your questions. Be able to read a meter and get the
reaction.

    All of those things have to be ~awfully good~ because it's very
difficult to get a communication line in to somebody anyway. They all
have to be present and they all have to be ~perfect~. If they are all
present and they are all perfect, ~THEN~ we can ~start~ to process
somebody.

    I'm giving you an entrance point here. If all your cycles were
perfect, if you were able to sit there and confront the pc and meter
that pc and keep your auditing report* and do all these various things,
and keep a pleasant smile on your face and ~not chop his communication~,
well then there is something you ~do~ with those things.

    Your magic is getting into communication with the person. The rest
is very easy to do; all you have to do is ~remain~ in communication with
the person while you are doing this, and realize that these huge
aberrations he's got are poised with the most fantastically delicate
balance on little pin points. All you have to do is "poof" and these
things crash.

    Now if you were a perfect auditor from the basis of your auditing
basics and presence and handling somebody, what could you do? You've got
to do something for the person. It takes a process now.

    A process is simply a combination of mental mechanisms which when
inspected will pass away. All auditing is negative gain. You never add
anything to the case. All auditing is subtractive, you're ~as-ising~
things on the case and that's all you're doing.

    An elementary procedure would be--"What do you think is
sensible?"--or anything of that sort. The pc says,

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 131

"Well, I think ~horses sleep in beds~. That's sensible." The auditor
says, "All right. Now why is that sensible?" The pc says, "Well, . . .
ah . . . Hey! . . . That's not sensible. That's nuts!" He's cognited.
You've flattened it (continued the process as long as it produces change
and no longer).

    Now if you're ~not~ in communication with this person he doesn't
cognite.* He takes it as an accusative action. He tries to justify
thinking that way. He tries to make himself look good to you and tries
to put on a public front of some kind or another. He tries to hold up
his status.

    Anytime I see a bunch of pcs around who want to jump happily to
something else because sane people run on that and crazy people run on
something else, and they never have to be run on the crazy one, I right
away know their auditors are ~not~ in communication with them and that
auditing discipline itself has broken down because the pc is trying to
justify himself and trying to uphold his status. So he must be defending
himself against the auditor.

    The auditor couldn't possibly be in communication with him.

    So we are right back at the fundamental of why didn't the auditor
get into comm with the pc in the first place.

    You get into communication with the pc in the first place by doing
proper auditing discipline.

    You sit down and you start the session and you start handling the pc
and his problems and that sort of thing and you DO IT BY COMPLETING
YOUR COMMUNICATION CYCLES AND NOT CUTTING HIS
COMMUNICATION AND THE VERY THINGS YOU ARE TAUGHT
IN THE TRs, and you find you are in communication ~with~ the person.

    Unless, having gotten into communication you ~do~ something for the
person, you lose your communication line because the reality factor of
why you're in communication with the pc breaks down. He doesn't think
you're so good, and you go out of communication with him. That having
happened, the person will be in a sort of status defensive and wonder
why he is being processed.

    If you ~have~ done something for the pc and he has ~had~ his
cognition,* and you try and go on and get more out of the

                132 BOOK TWO

fact that "all horses sleep in beds," you don't get there as you've
~already~ flattened the process.

    You can over audit and you can under audit.

    If you don't notice that ~one~ answer come your way, that indicates
that you have ~done~ something for the pc and if you keep him working on
that same thing your pc will get resentful and you'll lose your
communication line.

    He's already ~had~ the cognition you see. You are now restimulating
the pc. You have gotten your key-out destimulation factor--it has
occurred right before your eyes. You have ~done~ something for the pc.
One more mention of the subject and you've had it.

    There are a lot of things you could do ~with~ the pc, without doing
anything ~for~ him. You can turn on some very, very handsome somatics on
a pc at one time or another without turning them off either. You've got
to do something ~for~ the pc, not ~to~ him.

    Now you can be doing something A, and the pc is doing B, and you go
on doing A, while the pc is doing B then somewhere on down the line you
wind up in a mess and you wonder what happened.

    Well, the pc never did what you said so you didn't do anything ~for~
the pc. There was in actual fact no barrier to your willingness to do
something for the pc ~but there must have been a tremendous barrier to
your understanding of what was going on~.

    That you could ask A, while the pc answered B, in itself showed the
auditor observation was very poor so therefore the auditor wasn't in
communication with the pc.

    So again the communication factor was out and once more we weren't
doing anything for the pc.

    It requires of the auditor discipline to ~keep~ in his communication
line. He has got to stay in communication with his pc. Those cycles have
got to be ~perfect~. He can't be distracting the pc's attention onto the
E-meter; e.g., "I'm not getting any E-meter reaction now." That's not
staying in communication with the pc--has nothing to do with it. You're
distracting the pc from his own zones and areas.

    Don't put the pc's attention out of session. Keep him going and keep
that communication line ~in~. And the next

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 133

requirement is to do something productive for the pc ~using~ the
communication line.


¤Comm Cycle Additives¤


    There are ~no~ additives permitted on the auditing comm cycle.

    Example: Getting the preclear to state the problem after the
preclear has said what the problem is.

    Example: Asking a preclear if that is the answer.

    Example: Telling a preclear "It didn't react on the meter."

    Example: Querying the answer.

    This is the WORST kind of auditing.

    Processes run best MUZZLED. By muzzled is meant using ~only~ TR-0,
TR-1, TR-2, TR-3 and TR-4 by the text.

    A preclear's results will go to HELL on an additive comm cycle.

    There are a hundred thousand tricks that could be added to the
auditing comm cycle. EVERY ONE of them is a GOOF.

    The ~ONLY~ time you ever ask for a repeat is when you couldn't hear
it.

    Since 1950, I've known that all auditors talk too much in a session.
The maximum talk is the standard session and the TR-0 to TR-4 auditing
comm cycle ~ONLY~.

    It is a serious matter to get a preclear to "clarify his answer." It
is in fact an ethics matter and if done habitually is a suppressive
act,* for it will wipe out all gains.

    There are mannerism additives also.

    Example: Waiting for the preclear to look at you before you give the
next command. (Preclears who won't look at you are ARC broken. You don't
then twist this to mean the preclear has to look at you before you give
the next command.)

    Example: A lifted eyebrow at an answer.

    Example: A questioning sort of acknowledgement.

    The whole message is:

    ~GOOD AUDITING OCCURS WHEN THE COMM CYCLE
ALONE IS USED AND IS MUZZLED~.

                134 BOOK TWO

    Additives on the auditing comm cycle are ~any action, statement,
question or expression given in addition to TRs 0 to 4~.

    They are gross auditing errors.

    And should be regarded as such.

    Auditors who add to the auditing comm cycle never make releases.

    So, that's suppressive.

    Don't do it!


¤Premature Acknowledgements¤


    Do people ever explain to you long after you have understood?

    Do people get cross with you when they are trying to tell you
something?

    If so, you are suffering from premature acknowledgement.

    Like body odor and bad breath, it is not conducive to social
happiness. But you don't use Lifebuoy soap or Listerine to cure it, you
use a proper comm formula.

    When you "coax" a person to talk after he has begun, with a nod or a
low "yes" you acknowledge, make him forget, then make him believe you
haven't got it and then make him tell you at GREAT length. He feels bad
and doesn't cognite and may ARC break.

    Try it out. Have somebody tell you about something and then
encourage before he has completely told you all.

    ~That's~ why preclears itsa on and on and on and on with no gain.
The auditor prematurely acknowledged. ~That's~ why preclears get cross
"for no reason." The auditor has prematurely and unwittingly
acknowledged. ~That's~ why one feels dull when talking to certain
people. They prematurely acknowledge. That's why one thinks another is
stupid--that person prematurely acknowledges.

    The quickest way to become a social pariah (dog) is to prematurely
acknowledge. One can do it in ~many~ ways.

    The quickest way to start the longest conversation is to prematurely
acknowledge, for the person believes he has not been understood and so
begins to explain at greater and greater length.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 135

    So this was the hidden ARC break maker, the cognition wrecker, the
stupidifier, the itsa prolonger in sessions.

    Anyway some people believe others are stupid or don't understand.

    Any habit of agreeable noises and nods can be mistaken for
acknowledgement, ends cycle on the speaker, causes him to forget, feel
dull, believe the listener is stupid, get cross, get exhausted
explaining and ARC break. The missed withhold* is inadvertent. One
didn't get a chance to say what one was going to say because one was
stopped by premature acknowledgement. Result, missed withhold in the
speaker, with all its consequences.

    This can be counted on to make you feel frightened of being
"agreeable with noises or gestures" for a bit and then you'll get it
straight.

    There have come up many instances of auditors asking odd non-process
questions while "doing a process" and giving odd orders. These are
distractive and additive questions and orders.

    Example: While running a process an auditor ~also~ kept asking "Is
your attention on something else?"

    This is of course a daffy thing to do. The auditor's TRs or handling
of the meter go out. Then the auditor badgers the pc with strange
irrelevant questions. These are ~distractions~, nothing more nor less.
Not all the silly questions in the world substitute for lack of TRs and
proper meter handling. A question about "What else are you doing?" does
not substitute for having by-passed a floating needle or running an
uncharged item.

    Giving orders that are not part of any process is very bad.

    Example: Auditor has missed a read, by-passed a floating needle and
is goofing it generally. Pc gets dull, disinterested. Auditor says "Come
back into the room!"

    Evaluation fits into this set of bad tricks. Like, "You are really
totally sane you know. You just think you're aberrated." Or "You better
tell the examiner you are really Clear." Or "You are in pretty bad shape
unless you can see the whole building." These of course are suppressive
evaluations.

                136 BOOK TWO

    In 1950 there was a general observation: ~all auditors talk too
much~.

    As a period of additive questions and comments occurs from time to
time, the observation can be made again.

    ~Muzzled~ auditing means stating only the standard session wording
and commands and TRs. It ~always~ gets the best results.

    Do ~not~ add a lot of questions or orders to a session to cover up
goofs in standard technology.

    Standard technology works. Use it and it only.


¤The Reason for Q and A¤


    Q and A means "_Q_uestion and _A_nswer."

    When the term Q and A is used it means one did ~NOT~ get an answer
to his question. It also means not getting compliance with an order but
accepting something else.

    Example:

    Auditor: "Do birds fly?"

    Pc: "I don't like birds."

    Auditor: "What don't you like about birds?"

    Flunk. It's a Q and A. The right reply would be an answer to the
question asked and the right action would be to get the original
question answered. TR-4 (handling origins) can apply here. The moment
TR-4 is violated (acknowledge and return the pc to original question)
and the original unanswered question is not again asked, the auditor
just drifts along with the pc. Things get restimulated, nothing gets
really handled or run.

    Q and A is simply ~postulate aberration~.

    Aberration is a non-straight line by definition.

    A sick thetan who is all caved in* can't direct a postulate ~at~
anything. When he tries, he lets it wobble around and go elsewhere.

    The difference between a degraded being and an OT* is simply that
the degraded being can't put out a postulate or intention in a direct
line or way and make it hold good.

    The insane are a great example of this. They are insane because they
have evil intentions. But they can't even make these stick. They may
~intend~ to burn down the house but

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 137

they usually wind up watering the rug or doing some other non sequitur
thing. It's not that they don't mess things up. The whole point here is
that they can't even properly destroy what they intend to destroy. Even
their evil intentions wobble, poor things.

    But not all people who Q and A are insane.

    When a person is running at ~effect~ he Qs and As.

    He is confront~ed~ by life, he does not confront it.

    He is usually a bit blind to things as his ability to look ~at~ is
turned back on him by his lack of beam power. Thus he gives the
appearance of being unaware.

    His emotional feeling is overwhelm.

    His mental state is confusion.

    He starts for B and winds up at A.

    Other not too well-intentioned people can play tricks on a Q and
Aer. When they don't want to answer or comply they artfully bring about
a Q and A.

    Example:

    Bosco does not want to staple the printed issue. He knows his boss
Qs and As. So we get this.

    Boss: "Staple that issue with the big stapler."

    Bosco: "I hurt my thumb."

    Q and A Boss: "Have you been to see the medical officer?"

    Bosco: "He wouldn't look at it."

    Q and A Boss: "I'll go have a word with him." (Departs).

    Bosco gets back to reading "Jesse James Rides Again" humming softly
to himself. For ~his~ trouble is, he Qs and As with the mest universe!

    Some people Q and A with their bodies. The body is, after all,
composed of mest. It follows the laws of mest.

    One of these laws is Newton's first law of motion: ~inertia~. This
is the tendency of a mest object to remain motionless until acted upon
by an exterior force. Or to continue in a line of motion until acted
upon by an exterior force.

    Well, the main force around that is continually acting on a human
body is a thetan, the being himself.

                138 BOOK TWO

    The body will remain at rest (since it is a mest object) until acted
upon by the thetan that is supposed to be running it.

    If that being is an aberrated non-straight line being ~the body
reacts on him more than he reacts on the body~. Thus he remains
motionless or very slow. When the body is in unwanted motion, the being
does not deter the motion as the body is acting upon him far more than
he is reacting on the body.

    As a result, one of the manifestations is Q and A. He wants to pick
up a piece of paper. The body inertia has to be overcome to do so. So he
does not reach for the paper, he just leaves the hand where it is. This
would be no action at all. If he then weakly forces the motion, he finds
himself picking up something else like a paper clip, decides he wants
that anyway and settles for it. Now he has to invent why he has a paper
clip in his hand. His original intention never gets executed.

    Some people on medical lines are just there not because of actual
illness but because they are just Qing and Aing with their bodies.

    People also Q and A with themselves. They want to stop drinking and
can't. They want to stop or change something about themselves or their
bodies and then disperse off onto something else.

    Freud read all sorts of dire and awful things into simple Q and A.
He invented intentions the person must have that made him "sublimate."
All Freud succeeded in doing was making the person introspect looking
for wrong whys.

    The right why was simple--the person could not go in a straight line
to an objective and/or could not cease to do something he was
compulsively doing.

    The very word ~aberration~ contains the idea of this--no straight
line but a bent one.

    ~The cure for this sort of thing~ (Q and A with a body) ~is
objective processing~.*

    And a very willing and bright thetan ~can~ simply recognize it for
what it is--not enough push!

    And instead of going to the doctor for a slight ache, he just pushes
on through.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 139

    As the ache is a recoil of body Q and A in a lot of cases, the ache
itself goes away as soon as one simply pushes through.

    Painters and artists buy the idea they are benefited by aberration.
"Be glad you are neurotic" was a trick being played by the late and
unlamented psychiatrists on artists.

    One paints because he can push into execution what he visualizes.
The best painters were the least aberrated.

    Greenwich Village or Left Bank artists, when they ~don't~ paint,
never suspect it's because they just can't overcome hand inertia to push
a paint brush!

    People live Q and A lives. They never become what they desire to be
because they Q and A with life about it.

    Schopenhauer, the German philosopher of doom, even had a dirty crack
about being able to ~do~ things: "Stubbornness is the will taking the
place of the intellect." By this, one is "intellectual" if he Qs and As.

    People who can't get things done are simply Qing and Aing with
people and life.

    People who ~can~ get things done just don't Q and A.

    All great truths are simple.

    This is a major one.

    Q and A has to be cured before an auditor can get results. It is a
dreadful malady.

    Auditor: "Spot that wall."

    Pc: "My neck hurts."

    Auditor: "Has it been hurting long?"

    Pc: "Ever since I was in the army."

    Auditor: "Are you in the army now?"

    Pc: "No, but my father is."

    Auditor: "Have you been in comm with your father lately?"

    Pc: "I miss him."

    Auditor: "That F/Ned, end of process."

    The auditor has failed to note that he ~never~ got the pc to spot
the wall or that he has run the pc all over the track flattening
nothing, restimulating the pc.

    When an auditor asks a question and F/Ns something else he can mess
a pc up badly.

    Auditor: "Do you have a withhold?"* (meter reaction)

                140 BOOK TWO

    Pc: "It's just a second dynamic* perversion. What I was really
thinking about was my raise I got today."

    Auditor: "That F/Ns."

    Pc (later in session): "You run a lousy organization here. Charge
too much . . ."

    Auditor in mystery, caves in. ~That is simply Q and A in another
coat~.

    Case supervisors can Q and A and infect their area with its
bacteria.

    Pc to examiner: "I have a cold."

    C/S: "Run spot spots to cure his cold."

    Pc to auditor: "It's really I have problems with my aunt."

    C/S: "Do problems process on aunt."

    Pc to examiner: "It's really my foot."

    C/S: "Do touch assist on foot . . ."

    What C/S ever got a pc's program* done that way?

    Where you find undone programs in folders you find goofing auditors
and Q and A type case supervisors.

    There are definite cures for this dreadful and disgraceful malady.
It must be handled as it results in a breaking out of bogged cases and
blows.

    The direct result of all this is a symptom known as "patty-cake."
This is a child's game of clapping hands and putting palms together and
has meant since 1950 ~not handling cases~. The signs of patty-cake are a
weak slouching posture, bags under the eyes, a bowed spine and hangdog
pathetic eyes. The respiration is quick and panicky, the palms sweat and
one starts at pins dropping in the next room.

    The reason the person Qs and As is that he can't confront or see the
existing scene and so can't handle it.

    Q and A is the ~disease of dodging life~.

    When such a person tries to get a question or program done and the
other person says or does something else, the Q and Aer goes into a sort
of overwhelm or cave-in and just rides along at effect.

    ~People who get things done are at CAUSE~. When they are not, they Q
and A.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 141

    Thus it ~is~ a kind of illness. Chronic overwhelm. It is ~not~ cured
by drugs or electric shocks or brain operations.

    It is cured by making oneself strong enough in confront and handle
to live!


¤Confronting¤


    There are several choices in English on the meaning of "confront."
These include the right one: To face without flinching or avoiding. An
example in a sentence: "The test of a free society is its capacity to
confront rather than evade the vital questions of choice."

    There is another meaning, "To stand facing or opposing, especially
in challenge, defiance or accusation."

    English is a pretty limited language in many ways. I imagine the
thought of facing something (which is what the word came from and
originally meant ~way~ back--"fron" being "face") was so horrifying to
the types who write dictionaries they knew it would be bad!

    In essence it is an action of being able to face.

    If one cannot, if he avoids, then he is not AWARE.

    Awareness is the ability to perceive the existence of. In the
dictionary it also fails to confront that and says "Awareness: the
quality or state of being aware." And aware means: "marked by
realization, perception or knowledge."

    We are moving out of the range of language when we want to say: "He
could stand up to things and wasn't always shrinking back into himself
and avoiding, so he could be fully conscious of the real universe and
others around him."

    And that's what confront means.

    If one can confront he can be aware.

    If he is aware he can perceive and act.

    If he can't confront he will not be aware of things and will be
withdrawn and not perceiving. Thus he is unaware of things around him.

    That's the technology of it.

    That which a person can confront, he can handle.

    The first step in handling anything is gaining an ability to face
it.

                142 BOOK TWO

    It could be said that war continues as a threat to Man because Man
cannot confront war. The idea of making war so terrible that no one will
be able to fight it is the exact reverse of fact--if one wishes to end
war. The invention of the long bow, gun powder, heavy naval cannon,
machine guns, liquid fire, and the hydrogen bomb add only more and more
certainty that war ~will~ continue. As each new element which Man cannot
confront is added to elements he has not been able to confront so far,
Man engages himself upon a decreasing ability to handle war.

    We are looking here at the basic anatomy of all problems. Problems
start with an inability to confront anything. Whether we apply this to
domestic quarrels or to insects, to garbage dumps or Picasso, one can
always trace the beginning of any existing problem to an unwillingness
to confront.

    Let us take a domestic scene. The husband or wife cannot confront
the other, cannot confront second dynamic consequences, cannot confront
the economic burdens, and so we have domestic strife. The less any of
these actually are confronted the more problem they will become.

    It is a truism that one never solves anything by running away from
it. Of course, one might also say that one never solves cannon balls by
baring his breast to them. But I assure you that if nobody cared whether
cannon balls were fired or not, control of people by threat of cannon
balls would cease.

    Down on skid row where flotsam and jetsam exist to keep the police
busy, we could not find one man whose basic difficulties, whose downfall
could not be traced at once to an inability to confront. A criminal once
came to me whose entire right side was paralyzed. Yet, this man made his
living by walking up to people in alleys, striking them and robbing
them. Why he struck people he could not connect with his paralyzed side
and arm. From his infancy he had been educated not to confront men. The
nearest he could come to confronting men was to strike them, and so his
criminal career.

    The more the horribleness of crime is deified by television and
public press the less the society will be able to

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 143

handle crime. The more formidable is made the juvenile delinquent, the
less the society will be able to handle the juvenile delinquent.

    In education, the more esoteric and difficult a subject is made, the
less the student will be able to handle the subject. When a subject is
made too formidable by an instructor, the more the student retreats from
it. There were, for instance, some early European mental studies which
were so complicated and so incomprehensible and which were sown with
such lack of understanding of Man that no student could possibly
confront them. In Scientology when we have a student who has been
educated basically in the idea that the mind is so formidable and so
complicated that none could confront it, or perhaps so bestial and
degraded that no one would want to, we have a student who cannot learn
Scientology. He has confused Scientology with his earlier training and
his difficulty is that he cannot be made to confront the subject of the
mind.

    Man at large today is in this state with regard to the human spirit.
For centuries Man was educated to believe in demons, ghouls, and things
that go boomp in the night. There was an organization in Southern Europe
which capitalized upon this terror and made demons and devils so
formidable that at length man could not even face the fact that any of
his fellows had souls. And thus we entered an entirely materialistic
age. With the background teaching that no one can confront the
"invisible," vengeful religions sought to move forward into a foremost
place of control. Naturally, it failed to achieve its goal and
irreligion became the order of the day, thus opening the door for
Communism and other idiocies. Although it might seem true that one
cannot confront the invisible, who said that a spirit was ~always~
invisible? Rather let us say that it is impossible for Man or anything
else to confront the non-existent, and thus when non-existent gods are
invented and are given more roles in the society we discover Man becomes
so degraded that he cannot even confront the spirit in his fellows, much
less become moral.

    Confronting as a subject in itself is intensely interesting. In
fact, there is some evidence that mental image

                144 BOOK TWO

pictures occur only when the individual is unable to confront the
circumstances of the picture. When this compounds and Man is unable to
confront anything anywhere, he might be considered to have pictures of
everything everywhere. This is proven by a rather interesting test made
in 1947 by myself, when it was discovered that if an individual could be
made to "run a lock" of something he had just seen, run another lock on
something he had just heard, and run an additional lock on something he
had just felt, he would at length be able to handle much more serious
pictures in his mind. I discovered, that an individual has no further
pictures when he can confront pictures; thus being able to confront
everything he has done, he is no longer troubled with the things he has
done. Supporting this, it will be discovered that individuals who
progress in an ability to handle pictures eventually have no pictures at
all. This we call a Clear.

    A Clear in an absolute sense would be someone who could confront
anything and everything in the past, present and future.

    Unfortunately for the world of action, it will be discovered that
one who can confront everything does not have to handle anything. In
support of this is offered that Scientology process, "Problems of
Comparable Magnitude." In this particular process the individual being
processed is asked to select a terminal with which he has had
difficulty. In that the definition of a terminal is a "live mass" or
something that is capable of causing, receiving or relaying
communication, it will be seen that terminals are quite ordinary people
in the problem category of anyone's bank. The person is then asked to
invent a problem of comparable magnitude to that person. He is asked to
do this many, many times. It will be found midway in the process that he
is willing to do something now about the problems he is having with that
person. But at the end of the process a new and strange thing is found
to occur. The individual no longer feels that he ~must~ do something
about the problem. Indeed, he can simply confront or regard or view the
problem with complete equanimity. Now an almost mystic quality enters
this when it is discovered that the problem in the physical universe
about which he has been worried often ceases to

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 145

exist out there. In other words, the handling of a problem seems to be
simply the increase of ability to confront the problem, and when the
problem can be totally confronted it no longer exists. This is strange
and miraculous.

    It is hard to believe that an individual who has a drunken husband
could cure that individual of drink simply by processing out the problem
of having a drunken husband, and yet this has occurred. I am not saying
here that all the problems of the world could be vanquished simply by
running problems of comparable magnitude on a few people, but neither am
I saying that all the problems of the world could not be handled by
running problems of comparable magnitude on a few people.

    Perhaps it could be said, however, that if there existed one person
in the entire universe who could confront all of the universe, the
problems of the universe for all would deintensify enormously.

    Man's difficulties are a compound of his cowardices. To have
difficulties in life, all it is necessary to do is to start running away
from the business of livingness. After that, problems of unsolvable
magnitude are assured. When individuals are restrained from confronting
life they accrue a vast ability to have difficulties with it.


¤Coaching*¤


    In order to help you to do the best you possibly can as far as being
a coach is concerned, below you will find a few data that will assist
you:

    ~1. Coach with a purpose~.

    Have for your goal when you are coaching that the student is going
to get the training drill correct; be purposeful in working toward
obtaining this goal. Whenever you correct the student as a coach just
don't do it with no reason, with no purpose. Have the purpose in mind
for the student to get a better understanding of the training drill and
to do it to the best of his ability.

    ~2. Coach with reality~.

    Be realistic in your coaching. When you give an origination to a
student really make it an origination, not just

                146 BOOK TWO

something that the sheet said you should say, so that it is as if the
student was having to handle it exactly as you say under real conditions
and circumstances. This does not mean, however, that you really feel the
things that you are giving as the coach, such as saying to the student
"my leg hurts." This does not mean that your leg should hurt, but you
should say it in such a manner as to convey to the student that your leg
hurts. Another thing about this is do not use any experiences from your
past to coach with. Be inventive in present time.

    ~3. Coach with an intention~.

    Behind all your coaching should be your intention that by the end of
the session your student will be aware that he is doing better at the
end of it than he did at the beginning. The student must have a feeling
that he has accomplished something in the training step, no matter how
small it is. It is your intention and always should be while coaching
that the student you are coaching be a more able person and have a
greater understanding of that on which he is being coached.

    ~4. In coaching take up only one thing at a time~.

    For example: Using TR-4, if the student arrives at the goal set up
for TR-4 then check over, one at a time, the earlier TRs. Is he
confronting you? Does he originate the question to you each time as his
own and did he really intend for you to receive it? Are his
acknowledgements ending the cycles of communication, etc. But only coach
these things one at a time; never two or more at a time. Make sure that
the student does each thing you coach him on correctly before going on
to the next training step. The better a student gets at a particular
drill or a particular part of a drill you should demand, as a coach, a
higher standard of ability. This does not mean that you should be "never
satisfied." It does mean that a person can always get better and once
you have reached a certain plateau of ability then work toward a new
plateau.

    As a coach you should always work in the direction of better and
more precise coaching. Never allow yourself to do a sloppy job of
coaching because you would be doing your

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 147

student a disservice and we doubt that you would like the same
disservice. If you are ever in doubt about the correctness of what he is
doing or of what you are doing, then the best thing is to ask the
supervisor. He will be very glad to assist you by referring you to the
correct materials.

    In coaching never give an opinion, as such, but always give your
directions as a direct statement, rather than saying "I think" or "well,
maybe it might be this way," etc.

    As a coach you are primarily responsible for the "session" and the
results that are obtained on the student. This does not mean, of course,
that you are totally responsible but that you do have a responsibility
toward the student and the "session." Make sure you always run good
control on the student and give him good directions.

    Once in a while the student auditor will start to rationalize and
justify what he is doing if he is doing something wrong. He will give
you "reasons why" and "becauses." Talking about such things at great
length does not accomplish very much. The only thing that does
accomplish the goals of the TR and resolves any differences is doing the
training drill. You will get further by doing it than by talking about
it.

    In the training drills the coach should coach with the material
given under "training stress" and "purpose."

    These training drills occasionally have a tendency to upset the
student. There is a possibility that during a drill a student auditor
may become angry or extremely upset or experience some misemotion.
Should this occur the coach must not "back off." He should continue the
training drill until he can do it without stress or duress and he feels
"good about it." So, don't "back off" but push the student through
whatever difficulty he may be having.

    There is a small thing that most people forget to do and that is
telling the student when he has gotten the drill right or he has done a
good job on a particular step. Besides correcting wrongnesses there is
also complimenting rightness.

    You very definitely "flunk" the student auditor for anything that
amounts to "self-coaching." The reason for this

                148 BOOK TWO

is that he will tend to introvert and will look too much at how he is
doing and what he is doing rather than just doing it.

    As a coach, keep your attention on the student auditor and how he is
doing and don't become so interested in what you yourself are doing that
you neglect the student and are unaware of his ability or inability to
do the drill correctly. It is easy to become "interesting" to a student,
to make him laugh and act up a bit, but your main job as a coach is to
see how good your student can get in each training drill and that is
what you should have your attention on; that, and how well he is doing.

    To a large degree the progress of the student auditor is determined
by the standard of coaching. Being a good coach produces auditors who
will in turn produce good results on their preclears. Good results
produce better people.

    MORALE depends on production.

    PRODUCTION is the evidence of the demonstration of competence--the
exhibition or exercise of competence.

    MORALE IS UP WHEN COMPETENCE IS DEMONSTRATED.

    MORALE IS UP WHEN PRODUCTION IS UP. (Morale isn't necessarily built
by being "nice.")

    A student auditor getting a tough coaching session and passing feels
great. He has really accomplished something. He ~knows~ that he knows
the data or drill.

    A student auditor who gets poor or non-standard coaching feels and
knows that he has been cheated. If his twin is just being "nice" he
doesn't win and doesn't appreciate the coaching. His morale is down.

    Additionally a situation can occur where the student auditor and
coach get in a "games condition," one with the other. This gives a "no
progress," problem situation. A "games condition" occurs when the
student and coach are not both working towards the same goal but one is
in ~opposition~ to the other in some way. This gives no progress, no
wins, no production, NO DEMONSTRATION OF COMPETENCE
PERMITTED, and low morale.

    Student auditors and coaches must not allow such a situation to
occur.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 149

    Keep your twin's morale and production high. Give him tough standard
coaching sessions so he ~becomes~ competent. Give him tough standard
coaching so he KNOWS HE HAS DEMONSTRATED HIS COMPETENCE IN THE
MATERIALS.

    To keep morale high, the coach must insist on the demonstration of
competence on all materials by the student auditor, and on production.

    Student production ~without~ the ~demonstration of competence~ is
not really production but is an ~overt product~.

    TOUGH STANDARD COACHING IS DONE WITH GOOD ARC.

    (Being "nice" however, isn't enough.)


¤Gradients in the Training Routines (TRs)¤


    Time after time you're going to find somebody trying to teach the
TRs this way: Go on to TR-0 and stick there.

    Eight months later he'll still be doing the TRs.

    Here is the way you do the TRs. You'll find it valuable.

    You do TR-0, flunking only TR-0. You go on to TR-1. The guy didn't
pass TR-0. He just got accustomed to it a little bit.

    You do TR-1, flunking only TR-1. Don't flunk anything else.

    TR-2, flunking only TR-2.

    TR-3, flunking only TR-3.

    TR-4, flunking only TR-4.

    Now come back to TR-0. Get the guy better at TR-0.

    Then go on through it again, flunking only the TR he is on.

    About the third run through or maybe the fifth run through,
according to your judgment, you should really start toughening up on the
student. Flunk only the one he's on but get tough. Give him the
business. Give him things he can't possibly confront. Try to shake him
up.

    I'd better review that so you don't get a double confusion.

                150 BOOK TWO

    TR-0, TR-1, TR-2, TR-3, TR-4, flunking only the TR he's on; then
TR-0, 1, 2, 3, 4 again, not giving the student much trouble.

    Now--start in TR-0 and give him the works. TR-1 and give him the
works. TR-2, 3, 4. Flunk only the TR that he's on, but give him the
works.

    Run through the TRs that way a couple of times, flunking only the TR
that he's on, giving him the works, pushing his buttons. Give him
something to confront for sure.

    And then start the business of TR-0, TR-1, give him the works--and
flunk TR-1 ~and~ TR-0.

    TR-2, give him the works, flunk TR-2, TR-1, TR-0.

    Get him on TR-3, giving him the works and flunking TR-3, TR-2, TR-1,
TR-0.

    Get him on TR-4, giving him the works and flunking TR-4, TR-3, TR-2,
TR-1, TR-0.

    Thereafter in running the TRs give him the works. Flunk everything
in that battery of TRs.

    If you do that, you shorten considerably the time it takes to learn
the TRs.

    In other words, you approach this with a gradient scale.

    We did learn about gradient scales many years ago and we should
continue to apply that knowledge.

    Let them get used to each TR.

    You'll find out they progress much faster if you do it that way.


¤The Training Routines (TRs)¤


    The auditing skill of any student remains only as good as he can do
his TRs.

    Flubs in TRs are the basis of all confusion in subsequent efforts to
audit.

    Almost all confusions on meter, model sessions* and Scientology or
Dianetic processes stem directly from inability to do the TRs.

    A student who has not mastered his TRs will not master anything
further.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 151

    Scientology or Dianetic processes will not function in the presence
of bad TRs. The preclear is already being overwhelmed by process
velocity and cannot bear up to TR flubs without ARC breaks.

    TRs are not a tea party.

    These TRs given here should be put in use at once in all auditor
training, and should never be relaxed.

    Absolutely no standards are lowered. DO REAL TRs--ROUGH,
TOUGH AND HARD. To do otherwise is to lose 90 percent
of the results. There is nothing pale and "patty-cake" about TRs.

    THIS MEANS WHAT IT SAYS. IT DOES NOT MEAN
SOMETHING ELSE. IT DOES NOT IMPLY ANOTHER
MEANING. IT IS NOT OPEN TO INTERPRETATION
FROM ANOTHER SOURCE.

    THESE TRs ARE DONE EXACTLY AS FOLLOWS
WITHOUT ADDED ACTIONS OR CHANGE.


¤OT TR-0¤


    Number: OT TR-0

    Name: Operating Thetan Confronting.

    Commands: None

    Position: Student auditor and coach sit facing each other with eyes
closed, a comfortable distance apart--about three feet.

    Purpose: To train a student auditor to be there comfortably and
confront another person. The idea is to get the student auditor able to
BE there comfortably in a position three feet in front of another
person, to BE there and not do anything else but BE there.

    Training Stress: Student auditor and coach sit facing each other
with eyes closed. There is no conversation. This is a silent drill.
There is ~NO~ twitching, moving, confronting with a body part, "system"
or vias used to confront or anything else added to BE there. One will
usually see blackness or an area of the room when one's eyes are closed.
BE THERE, COMFORTABLY AND CONFRONT.

                152 BOOK TWO

    When a student can BE there comfortably and confront and has reached
a ~major stable win~, the drill is passed.

    History: I developed this in June 1971 to give an additional
gradient to confronting and eliminate students confronting with their
eyes, blinking, etc.


¤TR-0¤


    Number: TR-0 Confronting

    Name: Confronting Preclear

    Commands: None

    Position: Student auditor and coach sit facing each other a
comfortable distance apart--about three feet.

    Purpose: To train a student auditor to confront a preclear with
auditing only or with nothing. The whole idea is to get the student able
to be there comfortably in a position three feet in front of a preclear,
to BE there and not do anything else but BE there.

    Training Stress: Have the student auditor and coach sit facing each
other, neither making any conversation or effort to be interesting. Have
them sit and look at each other and say and do nothing for some hours.
Student must not speak, blink, fidget, giggle or be embarrassed or
anaten. It will be found the student tends to confront WITH a body part,
rather than just confront, or to use a system of confronting rather than
just BE there. The drill is misnamed if confronting means to DO
something to the pc. The whole action is to accustom an auditor to BEING
THERE three feet in front of a preclear without apologizing or moving or
being startled or embarrassed or defending self. Confronting with a body
part can cause somatics in that body part being used to confront. The
solution is just to confront and BE there. Student auditor passes when
he can just BE there and confront and he has reached a ~major stable
win~.

    History: I developed this in Washington in March 1957 to train
students to confront preclears in the absence of social tricks or
conversation and to overcome obsessive compulsions to be "interesting."

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 153


¤TR-0 Bullbait*¤


    Number: TR-0 Bull-bait

    Name: Confronting Bull-baited

    Commands: (Coach) "Start," "that's it," "flunk."

    Position: Student and coach sit facing each other a comfortable
distance apart--about three feet.

    Purpose: To train a student auditor to confront a preclear with
auditing or with nothing. The whole idea is to get the student auditor
able to BE there comfortably in a position three feet in front of the
preclear without being thrown off, distracted or reacting in any way to
what the preclear says or does.

    Training Stress: After the student auditor has passed TR-0 and he
can just BE there comfortably, "bull-baiting" can begin. Anything added
to BEING THERE is sharply flunked by the coach. Twitches, blinks, sighs,
fidgets, anything except just being there is promptly flunked, with the
reason why.

    Patter: Student auditor coughs. Coach: "Flunk! you coughed. Start."
This is the whole of the coach's patter as a coach.

    Patter As a Confronted Subject: The coach may say anything or do
anything except leave the chair. The student's "buttons" can be found
and tromped on hard. Any words not coaching words may receive ~no~
response from the student auditor. If the student responds, the coach is
instantly a coach (see patter above). Student passes when he can BE
there comfortably without being thrown off or distracted or react in any
way to anything the coach says or does and has reached a ~major stable
win~.

    History: I developed this in Washington in March 1957 to train
students to confront preclears in the absence of social tricks or
conversation and to overcome obsessive compulsions to be "interesting."


¤TR-1¤


    As far as the auditor is concerned in TR-1, Dear Alice,* his job is
done when he has delivered an auditing command

                154 BOOK TWO

to a preclear. He didn't deliver it over the hills and far away or to
the window; he delivered it to a being and he delivered it from where he
was to where the preclear was--and it's so easy.

    Anyone to whom this was described briefly, insufficiently, out in
the street would, flunking it at the same time, tell you, "Of course I
can communicate to people! Well, yes! There's nothing to it. I'm a
salesman, you know. I run the Atomic Energy Omission. I'm a big man! Of
course I communicate to anyone." We look in that man's vicinity and
nobody's heard anyting he's said since the days of Noah's Ark. He never
said it to anybody in the first place. He sort of throws things out, and
he just hopes they land. Well, that's what passes for communication and
it isn't by a long ways--he throws out a statement of some sort or
another and he thinks he's communicating with somebody.

    Franklin Delano Roosevelt never talked to the nation--he talked to
an individual citizen. And therefore he communicated.

    There was another fellow who spoke the most beautiful English I have
ever heard, almost incomprehensibly parsed. Perfect. He would have
passed any Oxford English professor's most critical look, and that was
Herbert Hoover. When this man uttered pronunciamentos they pronounced
nothing to anybody anywhere. And therefore he couldn't lead a nation out
of a depression, for an excellent reason. He had no concept in the final
analysis of talking to an individual, of getting his communication to
land right there.

    Now this is a touchy point that I open up. You say, "Well, how about
you, Ron? You talk to an awful lot of people." Well, that's the whole
secret of Dianetics and Scientology. I don't talk to an awful lot of
people. I talk to you. I haven't any concept of a large multitude that
reads my books or listens to my lectures. I can get a multiple concept
of talking to a great many at the same time by talking to every one of
them individually. I ~communicate~.

    Therefore, someone wanting to know how to speak to a crowd would
first begin with Dear Alice, TR-1. So it is very very far from an
unimportant step. It is not just the

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 155

entrance step that you have to get through to get the drill over with so
you can really learn something. That is not what it is. It is the first
door that opens and it opens when you can communicate a statement from
you to a person. We won't worry about a preclear, because the person who
is sitting there as a "preclear" is really the coach. But you've got to
get something across from you to that person. And it has to be from you
to that person--it has to be ~a~ communication. And when you can do
that, well, you're all set.

    I once told somebody that if he had a very difficult student, the
thing to do would be to put him through seven weeks of TRs and then
teach him some auditing procedures in the last week and turn him loose
with a certificate and it would be a safe investment. But to give him
one week when he needed two or three on TRs and then try to cram* him
full of data and hope that the processes would carry him through somehow
didn't make an auditor, it made a liability--both to himself and to
preclears.

    So this step is not an easy one--it is the toughest step you'll
perform in Dianetics. It's to say something to somebody with the full
confidence that they will receive it. And that's quite a trick.

    How exactly is this done? We give a person a book. The book is
~Alice in Wonderland~. Why ~Alice in Wonderland?~ Well, that's just
because it is, no further significance. We give him this book and he is
supposed to find any sentence in that book that he cares to find. (These
people who just want to read the book consecutively to the "preclear"
are not doing TR-1. They again are not in communication with the
"preclear.") He is supposed to find a line. Now he doesn't put "Alice
said" or "The Queen said" or something like that on the line. He just
puts the statement itself. The book says, " 'Why do they run so fast'
the Queen asked." We don't use "the Queen asked." We just say, "Why do
they run so fast?"

    He picks that up out of the book. Why not out of his head? In using
the English language, you are not using your own ideas, you did not
invent the words. You only helped invent the words that compose the
English language. You are already using somebody else's ideas. There is
nothing

                156 BOOK TWO

wrong with your composing these into new ideas of your own, but remember
you are already using somebody else's ideas when you're speaking
English.

    We are given a set pat process. I found it, but an awful lot of
auditors worked with this. It's had a lot of looking at, and it's become
phrased in a certain way, and that certain way might very well be taken
by you out of the textbook and given to the preclear, and it won't ever
work if you do. "Do fish swim?" is not a therapeutic procedure. But the
statement "Do fish swim?" is not yours really, at the beginning, is it?
You got it from the supervisor or off of a book, and then you used it.
Well, when does it become yours? Any idea is yours that you make yours.
We won't go along with dialectic materialism and say that no ideas are
new, because that's not true. There can be new ideas. But if you get an
idea from someone else, it is not still their idea. It's your idea.
There is nothing wrong with mis-owning ideas, there's no mass in them to
get you confused.

    You take an idea out of a book, it becomes your idea, and then as
your idea you relay it to the preclear. And that is all there is to it.
It is coached this way. It is not from the book to the preclear. It is
from the book to the auditor, and then the auditor, making it his own
idea, expresses that idea to the preclear in such a way that it arrives
at the preclear. So it's from the auditor to the preclear. But we give
him the book as a third via because most of the material he is going to
handle in communication is from a source outside himself. You've just
got to get used to the idea that there is nothing wrong with using
another person's ideas.

    I always know what someone's state of learning is in Scientology
when they speak of Scientology as "your" ideas. They say, "I've been
reading your ideas." I know at once this person can't communicate. They
reveal at once that they cannot take this first basic step of taking an
idea and then communicating it to someone else. They are standing back
looking at the world in some large sense and they are not any part of it
because they can't own any of the world's ideas. If they can't own any
of the world's ideas, then they won't own any of the world, because the
easiest thing to own is an idea. No mass to impede it.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 157

    So, we coach exactly in this way. We want the person to find a
phrase in ~Alice and Wonderland~, and then, taking that as his own idea,
communicate it directly to the preclear and he can say it over and over,
the same phrase if he wishes, in any way he wishes to say it, until the
"preclear" (who is really a coach) tells him that he thinks it has
arrived.

    Now sometimes the preclear, the first day, feels just a little bit
strange about these communication lines, too, and sometimes has his
entire criticism based upon the erudition, the pronunciation, the way
the auditor holds his little finger while he announces the phrase--this
has nothing to do with it. It is the intention that communicates, not
the words. And when you have the intention to communicate to the
preclear, and that intention goes across, it will arrive. If you
broadcast that intention, no matter if you're saying it in Chinese, if
you're a Scientologist, it will arrive.

    One of the steps of the much higher indoctrination level, Tone 40
8-C, consists entirely and completely of saying things in funny voice
tones while one is communicating an intention--using very odd voice
tones. This is not part of "Dear Alice." The voice tones are
unimportant, pronunciation is unimportant. It's whether or not the
person could take that idea out of that book, own it, and then
communicate it. And the intention must communicate. And it must be
communicated in one unit of time. That is to say, it isn't repeated from
the last time it was said. It is new, fresh, communicated in present
time. The fifty-fifth command of "Do fish swim?" is the fifty-fifth, not
the first repeated. So we have one unit of time, one command, and the
intention. And when we have those things relayed across, then he can
find another phrase and communicate that. And that is the way we do
that, and I hope you find it helps communication.

    Here is the exact drill.

    Number: TR-1

    Name: Dear Alice

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to deliver a command newly and
in a new unit of time to a preclear without flinching or trying to
overwhelm or using a via.

    Commands: A phrase (with the "he saids" omitted) is picked out of
the book ~Alice in Wonderland~ and read to the

                158 BOOK TWO

coach. It is repeated until the coach is satisfied it arrived where he
is.

    Position: Student auditor and coach are seated facing each other a
comfortable distance apart.

    Training Stress: The command goes from the book to the student
auditor and, as his own, to the coach. It must not go from book to
coach. It must sound natural not artificial. Diction and elocution have
no part in it. Loudness may have.

    The coach must have received the command (or question) clearly and
have understood it before he says "Good."

    The coach says "Start," says "Good" without a new start if the
command is received or says "Flunk" if the command is not received.
"Start" is not used again. "That's it" is used to terminate for a
discussion or to end the activity. If the "session" is terminated for a
discussion, the coach must say "Start" again before it resumes.

    This drill is passed only when the student auditor can put across a
command naturally, without strain or artificiality or elocutionary bobs
and gestures, and when the auditor can do it easily and relaxedly.

    History: Developed by me in London, April 1956, to teach the
communication formula to new students and to increase auditing ability.


¤TR-2¤


    Acknowledgement is the next part of the communication cycle. When
you have gotten a thought over to a preclear it is customary to prove
it. The whole stress of acknowledgement is completely upon making sure
that the preclear receives the auditor's acknowledgement. That is the
entire stress of TR-2.

    Now why all this stress on acknowledgement? Well, acknowledgement is
a control factor--I'll just let you in on a secret right here at the
beginning. If you acknowledge a preclear well, you will have the
preclear under much better control. Why? The formula of control is
start, change, and stop. And that's just it, an acknowledgement is stop.
If you said to him, "Keep going" or "Keep talking," you would not be
acknowledging him. The perfect acknowledgement com-

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 159

municates only this: "~I have heard your communication~--that's all
there is to it--~I have heard what you said~." It signalizes that the
preclear's (or person's, since Dianetics and Scientology apply to life,
not just to an auditing room) communication to you has been received.
But when you use it as an auditor you use it also as a control factor.
And it says this: "~Your communication has been received--and that is
all there is to it, and that is the end of that cycle of action, thank
you~." And you have to put that whole intention into a "Yes" or an
"Okay" or anything else you use. It isn't the word, it's the intention
that ends it. "~Your communication has been received and I have now
decided to stop that cycle of communication and your communication is
therefore under my control~." Those things which you stop, very crudely,
are things which you control. You have to be able to stop things if you
control them. If you cannot control a preclear's communication line you
can't control the preclear.

    I'll give you an example of this. Let's say we're auditing Mrs.
Gotrocks, the wife of the executive manager of Fleabite Dustpowder or
something. She is bored, and she's crazy, and she never has anything to
do. She's just been lying around, and she has ailments. She comes into
the auditing room and starts to talk to you. She says, "Oh, I've been to
this specialist and that specialist and it cost this much money and that
much money and I've been here and I've been there and what's really
wrong with me and what you really should take up is . . ." The longer
you let such a person talk, the less havingness they have. You can watch
them go straight down the tone scale* if you keep on letting them talk.
It's obsessive communication, obsessive outflow. And the first time you
really understand what this acknowledgement is all about is when
somebody starts this on you and starts talking, talking, talking,
talking, and you want to get a session started. You get the intention
really well and you say to them, "~Good!~" And they stop talking. Your
intention was such that they knew that you had received their
communication. If you can do this very well, and can get that
acknowledgement just right and if it does exactly what it is supposed to
do, very often the person will look at you

                160 BOOK TWO

fixedly and say, "You know, I don't think anybody has ever heard me
before."

    Why is this person talking obsessively? They are trying to make up
in quantity what they lack in audience. There's nobody listening to
them. They are not talking to anyone. And you all of a sudden come up
with an acknowledgement and say, "Hey! I heard you. I heard that. You
have communicated to me, and that's it, now." And they say, "Wow! I
don't think I've ever talked to anybody before." It's quite amazing. I
have seen an auditor on an obsessive outflow case get down in front of
the preclear, fix him with an eye, move his finger back and forth just
in front of the preclear's nose and say, "Good! I heard that," and have
the preclear all of a sudden say, "Ooooh! Gee! You are there, aren't
you!" So a good acknowledgement can actually wind up the entire goal of
the process and find the auditor--that's how important it is.

    Now, that is a specialized use, stopping a compulsive outflow. Its
general use is putting a period on the communication cycle. It ends the
moment of time in which you gave the command you learned how to give in
Dear Alice. You said something, the preclear heard it, and you
understood then that the preclear had heard it, and you said, "Good."
Now the exact way TR-2 is done is this. The coach, or a person acting as
a "preclear," takes "Dear Alice" and reads random phrases out of it any
old way, we don't care how. (We're not disciplining the preclear; we
never do that, we merely control them.) In this particular case this
person says something out of ~Alice in Wonderland~ and the auditor has
to say, "Good," "Fine," "Okay," "I heard that," ~anything~--in such a
way as actually to convince the person who is sitting there acting as
the preclear that he has heard it.

    There is a specific way to do this. That is to ~intend~ that the
communication cycle ends at that point and to end it there. Anything
that you do to make that come about is, of course, legitimate, unless it
utterly destroys ARC. It finishes a cycle of communication. So what
could the auditor in this case do? There sits the auditor, no book;
there sits the preclear with a book; and the preclear is reading, "And
the

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 161

Mad Hatter dipped his watch into the teapot," and the auditor says,
"Good." That ends that. In view of the fact that the preclear is reading
a continued story which goes on sentence after sentence after sentence,
the auditor will have a tendency to treat this as "in passing," and that
is not an acknowledgement. The auditor ~could say~, "Well, read some
more." That's not an acknowledgement--it didn't stop it, did it?
"Continue, go ahead"--no, that's not an acknowledgement
at all. An acknowledgement says, "Stop"--"whoa"--"Air
brakes"--"Period"--"End"--"Heard you"--"You've communicated"--"That's
the end of that moment of time"--"Final cycle"--"That's it."

    So the auditor has to say "Good," "Fine," "Okay," in such a way as
to have received the communication in the "preclear's" eyes. The
"preclear" has to know that the auditor has received the communication,
and that's the only point on which they are coached--at first.

    Then we could start to bear down and say, "Well, did you acknowledge
that "preclear's" communication? Did you?" we could say, supervising.
And the auditor says, "Well, uhh. . ."

    "Did you do a perfect acknowledgement?"

    "Well--certainly."

    And the answer to that would be "No." The preclear is still reading,
still has the book in his hands, is still going on with it, still
sitting in the chair, and he's still in this universe.

    What is this all about? What are we actually trying to do? Well,
we're not trying to reach the ultimate in an acknowledgement because
that would be the end of the universe. If somebody could say
"Yes"--"Good"--or "Okay" with enough intention behind it, all
communications of this universe from the moment of its beginning would
then be acknowledged, totally. (Except that this would violate the
communication formula because they weren't all addressed to him,
although lots of people think they were.) But what does the auditor
actually feel called upon to do? He feels called upon to put a period to
that cycle of communication. It actually started, you see, with the
auditor's phrase to the

                162 BOOK TWO

preclear, then the preclear signified with some kind of wince or grunt
or something that it had been heard, and then the auditor says, "Well,
that's the end of that. Good. Fine. That finished that."

    But an acknowledgement ends the cycle of the communication which you
may have read about in ~Dianetics 55!~ and that is the Bill-Joe cycle.
"Good," says the auditor. This is fantastic. If you got good enough at
this, a traffic cop would drive up and say something to you and you
would acknowledge the fact that he had spoken and he would simply get
back on his bike or go back to the station house and turn in his badge
and retire. That would be the end of that. As a matter of fact, it
actually staggers people to have an acknowledgement come to them, really
to get it through. It's a good thing, and it's very therapeutic for a
person to know that he has been acknowledged.

    I know that you will be around in the local stores, maybe stopping a
pedestrian on the street and suddenly looking at him and saying,
"Good"--acknowledging him. And you will have some fantastic things occur
if you do. An acknowledgement is a very, very powerful sixteen-inch gun
in the communication formula; and you shouldn't use it sparingly, you
should use it to end cycles of communication. I hope you learn to do
that very, very well.

    Mood can be expressed by an acknowledgement. Evaluation can also be
accomplished by acknowledgement, depending on the tone of voice with
which it is uttered.

    There is nothing bad about expressing mood by acknowledgement,
except when the acknowledgement expresses criticalness, ridicule, or
humor.

    Number: TR-2

    Name: Acknowledgements

    Purpose: To teach a student auditor that an acknowledgement is a
method of controlling a preclear's communication and that an
acknowledgement is a full stop.

    Commands: The coach reads lines from ~Alice in Wonderland~ omitting
"He saids" and the auditor thoroughly acknowledges them. The coach
repeats any line he feels was not truly acknowledged.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 163

    Position: Student auditor and coach are seated facing each other a
comfortable distance apart.

    Training Stress: To teach a student auditor to acknowledge exactly
what was said so preclear knows it was heard. Ask student from time to
time what ~was~ said. Curb over and under acknowledgement. Let the
student do anything at first to get acknowledgement across and then even
him out. Teach him that an acknowledgement is a stop, not beginning of a
new cycle of communication or an encouragement to the preclear to go on.

    To teach further that one can fail to get an acknowledgement across
or can fail to stop a pc with an acknowledgement or can take a pc's head
off with an acknowledgement.

    The coach says "Start," reads a line and says "Flunk" every time the
coach feels there has been an improper acknowledgement. The coach
repeats the same line each time the coach says "Flunk." "That's it" may
be used to terminate for discussion or terminate the session. "Start"
must be used to begin a new coaching after a "That's it."

    History: Developed in London in April 1956 to teach new student
auditors that an acknowledgement ends a communication cycle and a period
of time and that a new command begins a new period of time.


¤TR-3¤


    TR-3 is interesting in that it makes somebody duplicate. Way back in
1950, I found out that some auditors, in order to be interesting, would
vary their pattern; and every time the pattern was varied, every time
the auditing command changed, the preclear received a little jolt. There
was an upset because of it. For an auditor, using the auditing command
"Do fish swim?" to say, "By the way, do finny creatures wiggle in the
water?"--and next time to say, "Say! does the finny tribe bathe?"--and
the next time to say, "What brands of fishes are there that progress
from point A to point B in liquid habitats?" causes the pc to be upset.
In TR-3 (Duplication), the auditor says, "Do fish swim?" And,

                164 BOOK TWO

just to vary it, he then says, "Do fish swim?" And, just for good wild
variation, he then says, "Do fish swim?"

    This is where we learn why we were so insistent on one command in
one moment of time back in TR-1 because we don't repeat the first "Do
fish swim?" another thousand times. No auditing command should ever
depend for any of its meaning on any other auditing command ever
uttered. Each one exists, theoretically and purely, in its own moment of
time and is uttered itself in present time with its own intention.

    Now this is quite important. The basic auditing process of
Communication, Control, Havingness (CCH) does not work unless each
command is in a separate unit of time. If you run it this way, "Give me
your hand thank you, give me your hand thank you, give me your hand
thank you," it's not very therapeutic and nothing happens to the
preclear. Why? Well, we've got a machine which is simply repeating the
first "Give me your hand" over and over again. We're not saying
it--there's no intention there.

    Do you know that if you told somebody to give you his hand with
enough intention behind it his body would respond without any via
through the thetan? The body doesn't obey the words, the body obeys the
intention to extend a hand. Therefore, when you are asked to express an
auditing command with the same words over and over and over, each time
you must express it in present time as itself with its intention. It
isn't just a long duplication of it. Just duplicating something over and
over and over is sometimes so trying that people wonder how auditors
ever arrive at all. Nobody could sit in a chair and repeat the same
command, each time with a new intention, for seventy-five hours. It's
beyond human possibility, according to some people. But the trick is
that if it's always uttered in present time it could be said for a
thousand and seventy-five hours. It's only when the first command is
repeated over and over and when no new intention arrives that it becomes
very arduous. Only when it goes on to a machine does it become almost
impossible to do.

    Communication is reached by control plus duplication. At first you
find that to make each utterance of the

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 165

command different in its own unit of time you use different voice
inflections. But as you come up the line on this you find out that you
actually can pattern the same tone and each time have it entirely new.
It would be very, very incorrect in teaching this to have the auditor
each time duplicate his own voice tones as they were the last time,
because that is making an auditing command depend on the last auditing
command. We couldn't care less; and, after a while, you couldn't care
less, either, what voice tone you're uttering, but each intention is new
and fresh. The intention is to ask and get an answer to this question,
"Do fish swim?" and, each time you utter it, it is uttered newly and in
its own area of time. That's really the only stress there is. One
command per unit of time. Each command separate, and each command
containing the words, quite incidentally, "Do fish swim?"

    Here we learn a great deal about the duplicative factors of
communication. We find out that, in having to duplicate, we think we
actually lose some of the communication at first. It's utterly
idiotic--how could you possibly maintain ARC and therefore, of course,
interest, asking a person over and over again this silly question, "Do
fish swim?" Who could do this? Well, interest in communication has
everything to do with the intention to be interesting and very little to
do with text. Furthermore, it is not the auditor's job to be
interesting. Being interesting is a part of the communication formula,
but to an auditor the least possible part, as far as the preclear is
concerned. He's not there to interest and intrigue the preclear. Right
away, people think they are. Place two people in chairs facing each
other and each one of these two people feels the compulsion to be
interesting to the other. That's not auditing, that's being interesting,
that's being social. So if a person had any difficulty doing TR-3, the
supervisor would be perfectly in order if he simply had him go back to
TR-0. We do have variation, and therefore interest, in TR-1 and TR-2;
but now we reach this one and it is utterly devoid of interest. We're
saying the same thing over and over and over and over. And if a person
can't do this he probably has a compulsion to vary, to alter-is, to be
interesting, and he wouldn't find it easy just to sit in a chair

                166 BOOK TWO

and face another human being and not say a word and not do a thing but
just sit there and look at the other human being. And if I were coaching
someone that had difficulty in repetition of steps, I would have them do
TR-0 for an hour or two that day.

    It is absolutely necessary that an auditor be able to duplicate. But
answer me this: Is a person who is saying something in present time each
time really duplicating the last moment of time? He really isn't, is he?
And so this duplication that we do in Dianetics and Scientology means
only the ability apparently to duplicate while being in present time.

    The greatest motto of experience and the life we have lived is: ~I
won't ever do that again~. This is the one thing your mama wanted you to
promise. If you did nothing else, if you lived a completely sinful life,
why, mama still wanted you to learn by experience; which is to say that
when you did something wrong, or did ~something~, you weren't ever to do
it again. She hoped perhaps you would eat enough candy to make you so
sick that you wouldn't "wolf" candy again; that you would eat enough ice
cream so that ice cream would make you so green that you wouldn't make a
pig of yourself over ice cream again; that you would become so
embarrassed and lose so many friends that you would not do that evil
thing again, whatever it was you did; and thus learn by experience never
to do it again. And this is experience talking. One thing you must
understand, that experience teaches you, is never to do anything the
second time. This doesn't necessarily mean that all experience is
painful, but people who are having a hard time tend to believe that it
is; and when they begin to depend upon experience and stand by this
lesson of never doing it again, they can no longer duplicate. And what
do you know, they can't communicate. Also, their bank jams. All sorts of
interesting things occur. All moments become one moment. One moment
becomes all moments. Identification occurs all over the place. And just
the action of repeating something like "Do fish swim?" as a student
auditor, with a full intention, has a tendency to unjam the time track.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 167

    You should know that this is what this step is up against. It is
violating all of that hard-won experience that you have accumulated in
the last seventy-six trillion years, and all that wonderful, wonderful
lot of mess that you got into, added up completely to ~never do it
again~. And so you've been taught not to live, which is what happens
when you get experience. And when you can duplicate an auditing command
over and over again, you will find out that auditing does not become a
painful experience. A person who can do this well, by the way, never
gets restimulated. Why should he?--he's not in the moment of time in
which the restimulation took place.

    There is a more basic step to this particular one, by the way. This
is to pat the wall five times and then distinguish one of the pats from
the rest. A supervisor can do that on a student with some profit. Pretty
soon the student can tell all five pats apart, and when the student can
tell them all apart, even though they sounded all the same, he can also
duplicate an auditing command in present time all the way. I've broken
cases with that one.

    Number: TR-3

    Name: Duplicative Question

    Purpose: To teach a student auditor to duplicate without any
variation an auditing question, each time newly, in its own unit of
time, not as a blur with other questions, and to acknowledge it. To
teach that one never asks a second question until he has received an
answer to the one asked.

    Commands: "Do fish swim?" or "Do birds fly?"

    Position: Student auditor and coach seated a comfortable distance
apart.

    Training Stress: One question and student auditor acknowledgement of
its answer in one unit of time which is then finished. To keep auditor
from straying into variations of command. Even though the same question
is asked, it is asked as though it had never occurred to anyone before.

    The student auditor must learn to give a command and receive an
answer and to acknowledge it in one unit of time.

    The student auditor is flunked if he or she fails to get an answer
to the question asked, if he or she fails to repeat the

                168 BOOK TWO

exact question, if he or she Q and As with excursions taken by the
coach.

    The coach uses "Start" and "That's it," as in earlier TRs. The coach
is not bound after starting to answer the auditor's question but may
comm lag* or give a commenting type answer to throw the student auditor
off. Often the coach should answer. Somewhat less often the coach
attempts to pull the student auditor into a Q and A or upset him.
Example:

    Student Auditor: "Do fish swim?"

    Coach: "Yes."

    Student Auditor: "Good."

    Student Auditor: "Do fish swim?"

    Coach: "Aren't you hungry?"

    Student Auditor: "Yes."

    Coach: "Flunk."

    When the question is not answered, the auditor must say, gently,
"I'll repeat the auditing question," and do so until he gets an answer.
Anything except commands, acknowledgement and as needed, the repeat
statement, is flunked. Unnecessary use of the repeat statement is
flunked. A poor command is flunked. A poor acknowledgement is flunked. Q
and A is flunked (as in example). Student auditor misemotion and
confusion is flunked. Auditor failure to utter the next command without
a long comm lag is flunked. A choppy or premature acknowledgement is
flunked. Lack of an acknowledgement (or with a distinct comm lag) is
flunked. Any words from the coach except an answer to the question,
"Start," "Flunk", "Good" or "That's it" should have no influence on the
auditor except to get him to give a repeat statement and the command
again. By repeat statement is meant, "I'll repeat the auditing command."

    "Start," "Flunk," "Good" and "That's it" may not be used to fluster
or trap the student auditor. Any other statement under the sun may be.
The coach may try to leave his chair in this TR. If he succeeds it is a
flunk. The coach should not use introverted statements such as "I just
had a cognition." "Coach divertive" statements should all concern the
student auditor and should be designed to throw the

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 169

student auditor off and cause him to lose session control or track of
what he's doing.

    The student auditor's job is to keep a session going in spite of
anything, using only command, the repeat statement or the
acknowledgement. The student may use his or her hands to prevent a
"blow" (leaving) of the coach. If the student auditor does anything else
than the above, it is a flunk and the coach must say so.

    History: I developed this TR in London April 1956 to overcome
variations and sudden changes in sessions. Auditors had been frail in
getting their questions answered. This TR was designed to improve that
frailty.


¤TR-4¤


    The next thing an auditor has to do is to handle an origin from the
preclear. It is actually true that when you are handling Tone 40*
processes, you do not handle the preclear's originations. But you will
find that these Tone 40 processes are in the minority amongst processes,
and ~in all processes not Tone 40 a preclear's originations are
handled~--remember that. Don't let anybody talk you out of it. If you
are handling Tone 40, which is just pure, positive postulating, you, of
course, are not worried about anybody's opinion, origin, condition, or
anything else. You simply want him to do certain things, and he finds
out that his beingness* can be controlled and therefore that he can
control it.

    What do we mean by an origin of the preclear? He volunteers
something all on his own in the session; and do you know that is a very
good index of case--whether the person volunteers anything on his own?
An auditor uses this as a case index. He says, "This fellow isn't
getting any better. He hasn't offered up anything yet." You see, he
didn't originate a communication.

    So remember that we have not lost, out of the galaxy of processes,
the fact that the preclear is as well as he can originate a
communication. That means he can stand at Cause on the communication
formula. And that is a desirable point for him to reach. You see, in
controlling people we are

                170 BOOK TWO

really only showing them that they can be controlled, that it is
possible for their possessions to be controlled; and then they
eventually decide that these are controllable and that people are
controllable and that things are controllable and their bodies are
controllable, and they say, "Wonderful! Look I'll try!" Before that they
didn't even try.

    So we are controlling a person's possessions or body only until this
person then himself decides to take a hand in it, too. And then he finds
out that control is possible. But most people don't originate. Circuits
originate, computers originate, compulsive outflows originate. And when
you first start to use Tone 40 on a person you will apparently see
originations--but they are not originations, they are restimulations
being dramatized.* There is a big difference between a restimulation
being dramatized and an origination. It's whether or not the thetan said
it. Did ~he~ say it, or was it just a circuit starting up? Well, you can
start up circuits and actually throw them into being and you will see
that these are not originations.

    But when an origination appears in anything but a Tone 40 process,
you handle it. And you must handle it well and conclusively. There are
preclears who have had astonishing things happen to them, who have tried
to communicate them to the auditor, who have failed to do so and have
then sunk into apathy and just gone right on out of session because
their communication origination was not handled properly by the auditor.
There are instances of this, and many of them. Tone 40 processes do not
particularly violate this. An understanding of what they are takes place
rather rapidly with the preclear and he doesn't expect you to. But if he
has graduated into being a human being and he's getting up there and he
originates something and you answer it, he's liable to say the most
astonishing things to you. And if you don't handle them he's liable to
drop into apathy about the whole thing.

    So you must handle them well because they're always unexpected. I
would say that unexpectedness actually should be part of the definition
of an origination, because they are quite often completely off the
subject, they take

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 171

you completely by surprise, they are apparently not at all what you
expected him to say. The fellow says, "Huh! I'm eight feet back of my
head!" Well, what do you do? You handle the origination. He says, "You
know, the whole back of my head feels like it's on fire."

    Do we ignore it? Well, if we are running Tone 40 processes, we
ignore it. But if we are auditing any other process, of which there are
many, we ~handle the origin~. And an auditor who has not been trained to
do this will often find himself very embarrassed.

    But how about in the everyday world? The world that is ambulant and
moving around and spinning quietly, or noisily, as the case may be. Do
you ever have to handle an origin in it? Well, I dare say that every
argument you have ever gotten into was because you did not handle an
origin. Every time you have ever gotten into trouble with anybody, you
can trace it back along the line you didn't handle. If a person walks in
and says, "Whee! I've just passed with the highest mark in the whole
school" and you say, "I'm awfully hungry, shouldn't we go out and
eat?"--you'll find yourself in a fight. He feels ignored. He originated
a communication to have you prove to him that he was there and he was
solid. Most little kiddies get frantic about their parents when their
parents don't handle their originations properly. Handling an
origination merely tells the person, "All right, I heard it, you're
there." You might say it is a form of acknowledgement, but it's not. It
is the communication formula* in reverse; but the auditor is still in
control if he handles the origin; otherwise, the communication formula
goes out of his control and he is at effect point, no longer at cause
point. An auditor continues at cause point.

    So let's look this over. The handling of an origin has a great deal
of use.

    There are three steps in handling an origin. Here is the setup. The
preclear is sitting in the chair and the auditor is sitting across from
the preclear, and the auditor is saying, "Do fish swim?" or "Do birds
fly?" and the preclear says, "Yes." Here is the factor, now, entering.
"Do fish swim?" The preclear doesn't answer ~Do fish swim~, the preclear
says,

                172 BOOK TWO

"You know--your dress is on fire," or "I'm eight feet back of my head,"
or "Is it true that all cats weigh 1.8 kilograms?" You see, wog, wog.
Where did this come from? Well, although it is usually circuitry or
something like that at work when it's that far off beam, it is,
nevertheless, an origin. How do you handle it? Well, you don't want the
preclear to go out of session, and he would if you handled it wrongly,
so (1) you answer it; (2) you maintain ARC (you don't spend any time at
it, but you just maintain ARC); and (3) you get the preclear back on the
process. One, two, three. And if you spend too much time in (2), you'll
be doing wrong.

    What is an origin? All right, he says, "I'm eight feet back of my
head." What are you supposed to do with that statement? Well, you're
supposed to answer it. In this particular case, you would say to him
something on the order of, "You are?" (you mean something like, "I've
heard the communication. It's made an effect on me."). Now, in
maintaining ARC you can skimp that second one ~if~ you handle the third
one expertly enough. The least important one is the second one, but the
most deadly thing you can do is utterly to neglect the second one of
maintaining ARC. That's deadly. But you can skip it if you really punch
it into the third one, which is to say, get him back into session. So he
says, "I'm eight feet back of my head," and you say, "YOU ARE???" (what
he said really hit, you know). He's kind of wogwog about this--he's not
sure what this is all about. You say, "You are?" and the fellow says,
"Yes."

    "Well!" you say, "What did I say that made that happen?"

    "Oh, you said 'Do birds fly,' and I thought of myself as a bird and
I guess that's the way it is, but I am eight feet back of my head."

    "Well, that's pretty routine," you say--reassure him, maintain the
ARC. "Now, what was that auditing question?"

    "Oh, you asked me 'Do birds fly?' "

    And you say, "That's right. Do birds fly?"

    Back in session, you see.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 173

    You can't put it into a can and put a label on it and say ~This is
how you do it always~, because it's always something peculiar; but you
can say these three steps are followed.

    I will give you another example. You say "Do birds fly?" and he
says, "I have a blinding headache."

    "You do?" you say. "Is it bothering you (that's the ARC) too much to
carry on with the session? (and you've reached number three at once)."

    "Oh no--it's pretty bad though."

    "Well, let's go on with this, shall we?" you say. "Maybe it'll do
something with it. (maintaining ARC)."

    He says, "Well, all right," and you're right back onto it again: "Do
birds fly?"

    One of the trickiest of these is "What in my question reminded you
of that?" The fellow says, "Well, so and so," and he explains it to you
and you say, "Good. Do birds fly?" and you're right back in session
again.

    That is the important thing. You have to learn how to handle these
things.

    At the same time that we are doing this, we can get much more
complicated, particularly toward the end of the session, by just trying
out a communication bridge. A communication bridge from "Do birds fly?"
to "Do fish swim?" and from "Do fish swim?" back to "Do birds fly?" A
communication bridge is a very easy thing. It simply closes off the
process you were running, maintains ARC, and opens up the new process on
which you are about to embark. If you could look at it as two V's, the
points facing each other, with a line between the bottoms of the two
V's, you would see that one process, which you have been running, is
closed down to nothing, easily, by gradients. You say, "How about
running this just three or four more times, and then we'll quit, okay?"
We give him warning that we're closing the process off, and we run it
three or four more times, then we say, "How are you doing?" (We never
ask people, by the way, "How do you feel?" This as-ises havingness.) We
say "How are you doing?" and he says, "Oh, not too badly," and so on.
"Well, did anything happen there while we were

                174 BOOK TWO

running 'Do fish swim?' " And he says, "I don't know. I got a little bit
of reality. I felt like a fish for a couple of moments there." Auditor
says, "Is it okay? Are you doing all right now?" The preclear says, "Not
too badly." You say, "Well, let's go over onto 'Do birds fly?' It's an
interesting process and it goes like this--I ask you, 'Do birds fly' and
you answer me. how about running that?" And he says, "Well, all right,
okay." You establish agreement again and away we go.

    Actually, it is three contracts in a row. The first contract is: to
stop the process we are running; the next contract is: we are in an
auditing session, binding this as a continuing auditing session; and the
third contract is simply we have a new process we would like to run, and
I want your signature on this dotted line that you will run it. That
actually is a communication bridge. The reason we do this is so a
preclear will not be startled by change, for if we change too rapidly we
stick the preclear in the session every time. We give him some warning;
and that is what a communication bridge is for.

    The handling of origins, however, is most important. Learn how to
handle origins, and you'll never be taken by surprise by a preclear.
You'll be right in there pitching, and the session will keep on. I have
seen an auditor sit with his mouth open for twenty or thirty seconds
after some preclear said something fantastic. He just didn't know what
to make of it. Well, you answer it, you maintain ARC, and you get him
back in session.

    Number: TR-4

    Name: Preclear Originations

    Purpose: To teach the student auditor not to be tongue-tied or
startled or thrown off session by originations of the preclear and to
maintain ARC with the preclear throughout an origination.

    Commands: The student auditor runs "Do fish swim?" or "Do birds
fly?" on the coach. Coach answers but now and then makes startling
comments. The student auditor must handle originations to satisfaction
of coach.

    Position: Student auditor and coach sit facing each other at a
comfortable distance apart.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 175

    Training Stress: The student auditor is taught to hear the
origination and do three things. (1) Understand it; (2) Acknowledge it;
and (3) Return the preclear to session. If the coach feels abruptness or
too much time consumed or lack of comprehension, he corrects the student
into better handling.

    All originations concern the coach, his ideas, reactions or
difficulties, none concern the auditor. Otherwise the patter is the same
as in earlier TRs. The student auditor's patter is governed by: (1)
Clarifying and understanding the origin; (2) Acknowledging the origin;
(3) Giving the repeat statement, "I'll repeat the auditing command," and
then giving it. Anything else is a flunk.

    The auditor must be taught to prevent ARC breaks and differentiate
between a vital problem that concerns the pc and a mere effort to blow
session (TR-3). Flunks are given if the student does more than (1)
understand; (2) acknowledge; (3) return pc to session.

    Coach may throw in remarks personal to student auditor as on TR-3.
Student's failure to differentiate between these (by trying to handle
them) and coach's remarks about self as "pc" is a flunk.

    Student auditor's failure to persist is always a flunk in any TR but
here more so. By ~originate~ is meant a statement or remark referring to
the state of the coach or fancied case. By ~comment~ is meant a
statement or remark aimed only at student or room. Originations are
handled, comments are disregarded by the student auditor.

    History: I developed this in London in April 1956 to teach auditors
to stay in session when the preclear dives out, and to teach auditors
more about handling origins and preventing ARC breaks.

    It is better to go through these TRs several times getting tougher
each time than to hang on one TR forever or to be so tough at start that
the student auditor goes onto a decline.

    TR-0 exists so an auditor is not ducking the session but can sit
there relaxed, doing his job.

    TR-1 must be done so the pc can ~hear~ and understand the auditor
(without blowing the pc's head off either).

                176 BOOK TWO

    TR-2 must be done so that the pc gets acknowledged. This can be so
corrupted that the auditor doesn't acknowledge at all but gives the pc
meter phenomena instead of acknowledgements! Or keeps saying, "I didn't
understand you," etc.

    TR-3 basically exists so that the auditor continues to give the pc
commands and not squirrel off or pack up with total silence.

    TR-4 exists so that the pc's origins are accepted and not Q'd and
A'd with or invalidated.

    TR-5 had as its purpose to teach the auditor that ~verbal~ commands
are not entirely necessary. As the steps of this training routine are a
process, it is not included here.

    Following are the Upper Indoctrination (often called upper indoc)
TRs 6 to 9 inclusive.


¤TR-6¤


    Number: TR-6

    Name: 8-C (body control)*

    Commands: Non-verbal for first half of training session. First half
of coaching session, the student silently steers the coach's body around
the room, not touching the walls, quietly starting, changing and
stopping the coach's body. When the student has fully mastered
non-verbal 8-C, the student may commence verbal 8-C.

    The commands to be used for 8-C are:

    "Look at that wall." "Thank you."

    "Walk over to that wall." "Thank you."

    "Touch that wall." "Thank you."

    "Turn around." "Thank you."

    Position: Student and coach walking side by side; student always on
coach's right, except when turning.

    Purpose: First part: To accustom student to moving another body than
his own without verbal communication.

    Second part: To accustom student to moving another body, by and
while giving commands only, and to accustom student to proper commands
of 8-C.

    Training Stress: Complete, crisp precision of movement and commands.
Student, as in any other TR, is flunked for

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 177

current and preceding TRs. Thus, in this case, the coach flunks the
student for every hesitation or nervousness in moving body, for every
flub of command, for poor confronting, for bad communication of command,
for poor acknowledgement, for poor repetition of command, and for
failing to handle originations by coach. Stress that student learns to
lead slightly in all the motions of walking around the room or across
the room. This will be found to have a great deal to do with
confronting. In the first part of the session, student is not allowed to
walk coach into walls, as walls then become automatic stops and the
student is then not stopping the coach's body but allowing the wall to
do it for him.

    History: Developed in Camden, New Jersey in 1953.


¤TR-7¤


    Number: TR-7

    Name: High School Indoc

    Commands: Same as 8-C (control) but with student in physical contact
with coach. Student enforcing commands by manual guiding. Coach has only
three statements to which student must listen: "Start" to begin coaching
session, "Flunk" to call attention to student error, and "That's it" to
end the coaching session. No other remarks by coach are valid on
student. Coach tries in all possible ways, verbal, covert and physical,
to stop student from running control on him. If the student falters,
comm lags, fumbles a command, or fails to get execution on part of
coach, coach says "Flunk" and they start at the beginning of the command
cycle in which the error occurred. Coach falldown is not allowed.

    Position: Student and coach ambulant. Student handling coach
physically.

    Purpose: To train student never to be stopped by a person when he
gives a command. To train him to run fine control in any circumstances.
To teach him to handle rebellious people. To bring about his willingness
to handle other people.

    Training Stress: Stress is on accuracy of student performance and
persistence by student. Start gradually to

                178 BOOK TWO

toughen up resistance of student on a gradient. Don't finish him off all
at once.

    History: Developed in London, England in 1956.


¤TR-8¤


    Number: TR-8

    Name: Tone 40 on an Object

    Commands: "Stand up." "Thank you." "Sit down on that chair." "Thank
you." These are the only commands used.

    Position: Student sitting in chair facing chair which has on it an
ashtray. Coach sitting in chair facing chair occupied by student and
chair occupied by ashtray.

    Purpose: To make student clearly achieve tone 40 commands. To
clarify intentions as different from words. To start student on road to
handling objects and people with postulates. To obtain obedience not
wholly based on spoken commands.

    Training Stress: Under the heading of training stress is included
the various ways and means of getting the student to achieve the goals
of this training step. During the early part of this drill, say in the
first coaching session, the student should be coached in the basic parts
of the drill, one at a time. First, locate the space which includes
himself and the ashtray but not more than that much. Second, have him
locate the object in that space. Third, have him command the object in
the loudest possible voice he can muster. This is called shouting. The
coach's patter would run something like this:

    "Locate the space" "Locate the object in that space."

    "Command it as loudly as you can." "Acknowledge it as loudly as you
can."

    "Command it as loudly as you can." "Acknowledge it as loudly as you
can."

    That would complete two cycles of action. When shouting is
completed, then have student use a normal tone of voice with a lot of
coach attention on the student getting the intention into the object.

    Next, have the student do the drill while using the

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 179

wrong commands--i.e., saying "Thank you" while placing in the object the
intention to stand up, etc.

    Next, have the student do the drill silently, putting the intention
in the object without even thinking the words of the command or the
acknowledgement.

    The final step in this would be for the coach to say "Start" then
anything else he said would not be valid on the student with the
exception of "Flunk" and "That's it." Here, the coach would attempt to
distract the student, using any verbal means he could to knock the
student off tone 40. Physical heckling would not be greater than tapping
the student on the knee or shoulder to get his attention. When the
student can maintain tone 40 and get a clean intention on the object for
each command and for each acknowledgement, the drill is flat. There are
other ways to help the student along. The coach occasionally asks "Are
you willing to be in that ashtray?"

    When the student has answered, then "Are you willing for a thought
to be there instead of you?" Then continue the drill.

    The answers are not so important on these two questions as is the
fact that the idea is brought to the student's attention. Another
question the coach asks the student is, "Did you really expect that
ashtray to comply with that command?"

    There is a drill which will greatly increase the student's reality
on what an intention is. The coach can use this drill three or four
times during the training on Tone 40 on an Object. As follows:

    "Think the thought--I am a wild flower." "Good."

    "Think the thought that you are sitting in a chair." "Good."

    "Imagine that thought being in that ashtray." "Good."

    "Imagine that ashtray containing that thought in its substance."
"Good."

    "Now get the ashtray thinking that it is an ashtray." "Good.

    "Get the ashtray intending to go on being an ashtray." "Good."

                180 BOOK TWO

    "Get the ashtray intending to remain where it is." "Good."

    "Have the ashtray end that cycle." "Good."

    "Put in the ashtray the intention to remain where it is." "Good."

    This also helps the student get a reality on placing an intention in
something apart from himself. Stress that an intention has nothing to do
with words and has nothing to do with the voice, nor is it dependent
upon thinking certain words. An intention must be clear and have no
counter-intention in it. This training drill, Tone 40 on an Object,
usually takes the most time of any drill in Upper Indoc, and time on it
is well spent. Objects to be used are ashtrays, preferably heavy,
coloured glass ashtrays.

    History: Developed in Washington, D.C. in 1957 to train students to
use intention when auditing.


¤TR-9¤


    Number: TR-9

    Name: Tone 40 on a Person

    Commands: Same as 8-C (Control). Student runs fine, clear-cut
intention and verbal orders on coach. Coach tries to break down tone 40
of student. Coach commands that are valid are: "Start" to begin. "Flunk"
to call attention to student error and that they must return to
beginning of cycle, and "That's it" to take a break or to end the
training session. No other statement by coach is valid on student and is
only an effort to make student come off tone 40 or in general be
stopped.

    Position: Student and coach ambulant. Student in manual contact with
coach as needed.

    Purpose: To make student able to maintain tone 40 under any stress
or duress.

    Training Stress: The exact amount of physical effort must be used by
student plus a compelling, unspoken intention. No jerky struggles are
allowed, since each jerk is a stop. Student must learn to smoothly
increase effort quickly to amount needed to make coach execute. Stress
is on ~exact~ intention, exact strength needed, exact force

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 181

necessary, exact tone 40. Even a slight smile by student can be a flunk.
Too much force can be a flunk. Too little force definitely is a flunk.
Anything not tone 40 is a flunk.

    Here the coach should check very carefully on student's ability to
place an intention in the coach. This can be checked by the coach since
the coach will find himself doing the command almost whether or not he
wants to if the student is really getting the intention across. After
the coach is satisfied with the student's ability to get the intention
across, the coach should then do all he can to break the student off
Tone 40, mainly on the basis of surprise and change of pace. Thus the
student will be brought to have a greater tolerance of surprise and a
quick recovery from surprise.

    History: Developed in Washington, D.C. in 1957.

    The purpose of these four training drills, TR-6, TR-7, TR-8 and
TR-9, is to bring about in the student the willingness and ability to
handle and control other people's bodies, and to cheerfully confront
another person while giving that person commands. Also, to maintain a
high level of control in any circumstances.


¤Auditor Trust¤


    A pc tends to be able to confront to the degree that he or she feels
safe.

    If the pc is being audited in an auditing environment that is unsafe
or prone to interruption, his or her confront is greatly lower and the
result is a reduced ability to run locks, secondaries and engrams and to
erase them.

    If the auditor's TRs are rough and his manner uncertain or
challenging, evaluative or invalidative, the pc's confront is reduced to
zero or worse.

    This comes from a very early set of laws:

    Auditor plus pc is greater than bank.

    Auditor plus bank is greater than the pc.

    Pc minus auditor is less than the bank.

    (By "bank" is meant the mental image picture collection of the pc.
It comes from computer technology where all data is in a "bank.")

                182 BOOK TWO

    The difference between auditors is not that one has more data than
another or more tricks. The difference is that one auditor will get
better results than another due to his stricter adherence to procedure,
better TRs, more confident manner, and closer observance of the
Auditor's Code.

    No "bedside manner" is required or sympathetic expression. It's just
that an auditor who knows his procedures and has good TRs inspires more
confidence. The pc doesn't have to put his attention on or cope with the
auditor and feels safer and so can confront his bank better.

    In the presence of rough TRs, cognitions do not occur.

    Cognitions are the milestones of case gain.

    Rough TRs, rough metering, out-Code and a distractive auditor then
make no case gain.

    When an auditor has smooth, usual TRs, does his metering expertly
and without attracting the pc's attention, when he follows the Auditor's
Code (particularly regarding evaluation and invalidation) and when he is
interest~ed~, not interest~ing~ as an auditor, the pc cognites and makes
case gains.

    Further, according to the axioms, a bank straightens out by AS-ISING
its content. If the pc's attention is distracted to the auditor and
meter his attention is not on his bank so AS-ISING cannot occur.

    The definition of in session is INTERESTED IN OWN CASE AND WILLING
TO TALK TO THE AUDITOR. When this definition describes the session in
progress, then of course the pc will be able to AS-IS and will cognite.

    When the auditor plus the bank are both overwhelming the pc then the
bank seems greater than the pc. It is this situation which gives a pc a
low tone arm.

    An auditor who can't be heard, doesn't acknowledge, doesn't give the
pc the next command, fails to handle origins simply has OUT*-TRs.

    The auditor who is trying to be interest~ing~ to the pc, who
over-acknowledges, who laughs loudly, is putting the pc's attention onto
himself. So the pc's attention, not being on his bank, doesn't as-is or
cognite.

                THE MAGIC OF COMMUNICATION 183

    The auditor whose metering bypasses F/Ns or calls F/Ns at wrong
points, or who any other way uses the meter distractingly (the pc knows
when he is being under or overrun and knows when he is being
mismetered), is of course violating the definition of IN SESSION. The
pc's attention goes to the meter, not his bank, so he doesn't AS-IS or
cognite.

    Auditor invalidation and evaluation is just plain villainy. It
interferes with pc cognitions. Other Code breaks are similarly
distractive.

    If you understand the exact definition of IN SESSION, if you
understand the pc's necessity to have his attention on his bank so as to
AS-IS it and work out what is really going on in a session that brings
about a cognition (as-ising aberration with a realization about life),
you will then be able to spot all the things in TRs, metering and the
Code that would prevent case gain, if they were not applied.

    Once you see that out-TRs, mis-metering and Code breaks would
PREVENT the IN SESSION definition you will see what would impede a pc
from AS-ISing and cogniting.

    When you have this figured out you will then be able to see clearly
what are IN-TRs, CORRECT METERING and CORRECT CODE APPLICATION.

    There can be an infinity of wrongnesses. There are only a few
rightnesses.

    Recognition of right TRs, right metering and right Code use depend
only on

    a. Understand these principles, and

    b. Their practice so as to establish habit.

    This mastered, one's pcs will get cognitions and case gain and swear
by "their auditor"!

    TRs are for use in the session itself, not just a drill. They are
~how~ one runs a session.


                184 BOOK TWO

[picture#33]

                CHAPTER 2

                THE E-METER

    Mental image pictures have mass. The mass has what is called
resistance to electricity. The E-meter measures electrical resistance.
Mass resists electricity.

    The E-meter does not and never has diagnosed physical or mental
illness.

    It does not and cannot heal anything.

    A person who is physically ill is sent to a medical practitioner for
treatment.

    The Hubbard E-meter is a religious artifact developed for the
exclusive use of ordained ministers and technological students who are
trained in its use in church ministrations.

    In order to apply Dianetics standardly, it is ~very important~ that
you own an E-meter and quickly become familiar with it. Practical drills
to develop skill in its use are found in ~The Book of E-meter Drills~ by
the same author. You should practice the drills thoroughly. By the time
you finish this book, if you have studied diligently, you will be able
to perform miracles with Dianetics.

                186 BOOK TWO

    To obtain an E-meter one must be a sincerely enrolled student of the
Church of Scientology or a fully qualified minister of that church and
must undertake as well to become wholly skilled in its purpose and use.

    The following essential points concerning the E-meter must be known
to an auditor.

    There is no known way to clear anyone without using a meter.

    There is no guarantee that a scrap or non-standard meter will behave
properly.

    The only way known to learn to use an E-meter is use one, handle
one, practice with one. Skill in meter use depends upon familiarizing
oneself with the actual meter.

    Get familiar with the meter by holding it, watching it, turning it
on and off. Touch it. Reach and withdraw from it. Play catch with it.
Don't just read books about it.

    Put various persons on the meter. Check them out on rudiments*
checks, and release* checks. Check out dates of incidents.

    The person who says the meter is not a precision instrument is
either unfamiliar with one or has something to hide. The auditor's
questions can be off. The meter never is.

    The meter tells you what the preclear's mind is doing when the
preclear is made to think of something.

    The meter registers ~before~ the preclear becomes ~conscious~ of the
datum. It is, therefore, a pre-conscious meter. The meter passes a tiny
current through the preclear's body.

    This current is influenced by the mental masses, pictures, circuits
and machinery. When the unclear pc thinks of something, these mental
items shift and this registers on the meter.

    Some preclears are in denser masses than others. Therefore the tone
arm* reads very low (most dense), very high, or normal.

    A low-toned preclear may not be able to influence his mind or body
at all and registers the same as a dead body around two or three without
action. A low-toned person may be at two or three on the tone arm dial
with a dirty needle.*

                THE E-METER 187

    A middle-toned preclear reads actively on the meter both tone arm
and needle.

    A very high-toned person (Clear) registers at two or three on the
tone arm with a free needle.

    The key difference between a low-toned preclear and a high-toned one
is seen in needle response, the low-toned having a sluggish needle or a
sticky* one, the high-toned person having a free needle.

    The low-toned person cannot answer questions about help
intelligently.

    Thus we see that the E-meter basically registers the body at two
(female) or three (male) on the tone arm. If a thetan is "dead" he
doesn't add to or subtract from the reading. If a thetan is "partially
alive" he adds or subtracts from the reading. If a thetan is "fully
alive" he is not necessarily inside the body he controls and so does not
add to or subtract from the reading.


¤The Tone Arm¤


    The three general states have many way stops. There is always a
lower-toned mockery of higher tones. A low-tone case, to the relatively
unskilled, can be at clear read, unreactive on a sticky sort of needle.
He cannot however ~do~ things in life. He or she cannot answer questions
intelligently about help or control.

    The first ~advance~ of a very low-toned case may be to drop into the
minus two area on the tone arm dial.

    Because of the construction of an E-meter, the tone arm cannot pass
through the bottom of the dial. As a low-toned case gains
responsibility, the tone arm goes from three or two to 1.5 to 1 to 6 to
5 to 4 to 3 (for a male) and then to 2 (for a female). This occurs over
a long term of processing, of course, and takes many, many hours of
processing and the tone arm ebbs and flows back and forth.

    Very few cases are in a "dead" state. Most cases will be found on
the tone arm around four or five.

    The tone arm registers density of mass (ridges, pictures, machines,
circuits) in the mind of the preclear. This is

                188 BOOK TWO

actual mass, not imaginary, and can be weighed, measured by resistance,
etc.

    Therefore the tone arm registers state of case at any given time in
processing.

    The tone arm also registers advance of case during processing by
moving. An unmoving case has an unmoving tone arm. A moving case has a
moving tone arm.

    If a case is not moving, no matter what the preclear says, the tone
arm is not moving.

    If a case is moving, no matter what the preclear says, the tone arm
is moving during processing.

    If the tone arm shows motion, continue the process, no matter what
the preclear says.

    If the tone arm shows no motion, you can change the process.

    To change a process while the tone arm shows good motion is a breach
of the Auditor's Code. Also to continue a process that is producing no
tone arm motion is a breach of the Auditor's Code.

    It is a nice judgment when to leave a process. The judgment is done
by the tone arm action.

    Take hold of the tone arm of your E-meter. Set it at 4.5 on its
dial. Move it to 3. Move it to 5. Now pretend a period of twenty
minutes. Move the tone arm from 5 to 4, then from 4 to 4.5, then from
4.5 to 3.5, then from 3.5 to 4.8, then from 4.8 to 4. If that's all that
happened in twenty minutes of processing, that is terrific tone arm
motion. The case would be changing very, very well, and you would not
change the process. You would go on running it.

    Take the tone arm in hand again. Set it at 3.5. Pretend a period of
twenty minutes. Move it from 3.5 to 3.3. Move it from 3.3 to 3.6. Move
it from 3.6 to 3.4. If that's all that happened in twenty minutes of
processing, be alert. The tone arm may be getting ready to stick.

    ~But~ don't be surprised if the tone arm motion suddenly picks up
again. If it does, carry on with the same process.

    The above give you two extremes of tone arm motion. The first
example is excellent motion. The second example is poor motion. Between
these two examples you have a variety of types of motion.

                THE E-METER 189

    In using the meter you are trying to (a) assess for a process that
will produce tone arm motion and (b) run the motion ~out~ of the tone
arm.

    When the tone arm does not move under processing, one of two things
is true: (a) you didn't get the right process to run, or (b) you have
run it flat. The remedy for (a) is to do better assessment* and run
another process. The remedy for (b) is to do another assessment.

    That the tone arm moves under processing denotes a change in the
preclear's mind. That the tone arm doesn't move under processing denotes
no change of mass, pictures, machinery or circuits in the preclear.

    When a preclear is Clear he may occasionally get some tone arm
motion due to purely body electronics but in the main reads at male or
female on the tone arm (3 or 2) according to his or her sex.

    As a preclear nears Clear, an assessment plus a few commands will
"blow" the connected masses and thus flatten the process. As a preclear
gets even nearer, assessment alone blows the remaining masses.
Therefore, when the state is approached, the tone arm motion gets less
and less, no matter what you do. But the condition is self-evident when
observed, the preclear gaining more and more effect on his bank with
less and less time necessary to remedy a condition.


¤The Sensitivity Knob¤


    The sensitivity knob increases the swing of the needle.

    To run with too high a sensitivity makes the auditor's work
unreliable.

    To run with too low a sensitivity makes the needle unreadable.

    The sensitivity knob is adjusted at the start of the session, any
assessment, or any process or when the auditor wants to know.

    The exact setting of the knob is done as follows: Have the preclear
hold the electrodes comfortably in his hands. Have him tighten his hands
and then relax them, still holding the cans. The needle should drop
exactly one-third of

                190 BOOK TWO

a dial. Adjust the sensitivity knob by asking the preclear to squeeze
the cans again and observing the needle fall.

    On older meters, as the preclear gets to release, you can't get just
one-third of a dial--you get more even with the knob on the lowest
sensitivity. Set it as low as you can and use it anyway.

    In short, adjust the knob to a still needle that will yet move on
needed responses.

    If at any time the needle doesn't react and you want a comparative
reaction between two or more questions, increase the knob, read the
question responses, and then set it back again for running.

    If you change the sensitivity knob during an assessment, you have to
do the whole assessment again on the new setting as the amount of needle
fall will be changed.

    In looking for suspected withholds in particular, read with a high
knob.

    By holding a constant sensitivity knob during an assessment or
during a process, you find out how the preclear is reacting on the
needle relative to the start of the assessment or process.


¤The Needle¤


    A needle is monitored by the sensitivity knob, the tone arm and the
momentary or changing reactions of the preclear.

    There are ten main needle actions:

    1. Stuck
    2. No reaction (null)
    3. Fall*
    4. Change of characteristic
    5. Rise*
    6. Theta bop*
    7. Rock slam*
    8. Free needle*
    9. Body reactions
   10. Stage Four*

    In a totally ~stuck needle~ (1) the preclear would not even register
being pinched. It looks stiff. In a ~null needle~ (2) the question does
not change the needle behavior.

                THE E-METER 191

    In the presence of an ARC break with the auditor, the needle is
liable not to register any reaction at all, and to look like a null
needle; therefore, before writing off any assessment item question as
null, be sure to check for--and repair--any ARC break.

    A ~falling needle~ (3) makes a dip to the right as you face the
meter. A fall may consist of half a division (about one-eighth of an
inch) or may consist of fifteen dials (the whole meter face dropped
fifteen times). It is still a fall. A fall always happens with rapidity,
within a second or two. It denotes that a disagreement with life on
which the preclear has greater or lesser reality has met the question
asked.

    A fall is the most used and observed needle action. It means to the
auditor, "I've found it," or "I've gotten a response in the bank." It is
the click of the light switch illuminating where we are going.

    Falls are measured relative to falls. That's why we leave the
sensitivity alone when we are looking for something question by
question.

    Given two falls, the longer fall is the right one. For instance, a
question about "Joe" gets three-eighths of an inch of fall. A question
about "Mabel" right after gets five-eighths of an inch of fall. The
right answer is ~Mabel~.

    ~Any~ fall denotes there is something there. Any fall at ~any~
sensitivity level on rudiments questions denotes the presence of a bad
reaction to the room, an ARC break, a withhold, or a present time
problem* and ~must be cleared~ no matter what the preclear says.

    A fall follows at once upon the question being asked. A fall can be
in two stages or more providing they take place within a second or two
after the question.

    A fall is the diagnostic meter action. Set for falls from a still
needle as given under sensitivity above.

    In starting out the first thing you want to know is, "Is the
~preclear~ reading on this meter?" You get the preclear to squeeze the
cans. You get a fall as he does. Oh. He or she is reading on the meter.
The meter is not broken or turned off or disconnected. It is the fall
that tells us.

    The next thing we want to know is rudiments. It is the fall that
tells us what we must handle.

                192 BOOK TWO

    The next thing is the assessment. It is degree of fall that tells us
what is right, for we always take the greatest fall we can obtain, the
sensitivity being kept constant.

    The next thing is the running. We ignore the fall now and watch the
tone arm instead. The needle, of course, has to move if the tone arm is
going to move, but, until we want more rudiments type answers or until
we want a new assessment, we ignore the needle and watch only the tone
arm.

    ~Change of characteristic~ (4). Sometimes, we cannot get clean falls
on what we are looking for. Another guide is "change of characteristic"
of the needle.

    The needle is doing a pattern of small rises and falls. We ask a
question, it stops moving. We ask another question, it resumes idly
rising and falling as before. That stop is a ~change of characteristic~.
Or the needle is stopped while we ask a long series of questions but
suddenly does a small dance. That is a change of characteristic.

    Change of characteristic occurs when we hit on something in the
preclear's bank. It occurs only when and each time that we ask that
exact question. As the question or item alone changes the needle
pattern, we must assume that that is ~it~ and we use it.

    A question that stops a rising needle is a change of characteristic
question and like a fall means we have struck something. Further
exploration usually develops it into a fall.

    By using "change of characteristic" we can sometimes get our foot in
the door and get into a channel that brings about falls.

    ~The only~ needle reactions in which you should be interested are
those which occur INSTANTLY, i.e., within one tenth to one half of a
second after you have asked a question of the preclear.

    ~Rises~ (5). A rising needle means "no confront."

    Of course a needle ~must~ rise at times or the tone arm would never
move. But it still means that the preclear has struck an area or
something he isn't confronting. One never calls his attention to this.
But one knows what it is.

                THE E-METER 193

    The ~right~ circuit, valence, machinery, called off, will ~stop~ a
rising needle.

    The rising needle is, a steady, constant movement of the needle,
rather slow, from right to left.

    A needle returning to position after a fall is not a rising needle.

    ~A Theta Bop~ (6) is a small or wide steady dance of the needle.
Over a spread of one-eighth of an inch, say (depending on sensitivity
setting--it can be half an inch), the needle goes up and down perhaps
five or ten times a second. It goes up, sticks, falls, sticks, goes up,
sticks, etc., always the same distance, like a slow tuning fork. It is a
constant distance and a constant speed.

    A theta bop means "death," "leaving," "don't want to be here." It is
caused by a yo-yo of the preclear as a thetan vibrating out and into the
body or a position in the body. It's as if the needle is jumping between
two peaks across a narrow valley.

    Mention death to anyone (or make them think about it) while they're
on a meter and you'll see a theta bop.

    Its use is to detect whether a preclear is being left stuck in
death, or to locate death or departures.

    If a preclear wants badly to get out of session he or she may start
theta bopping without being stuck in a death. But few theta bops mean
the preclear wants to leave session.

    If you get a "bop" turned on during an assessment, it takes it quite
a while, sometimes, to turn off. The next several questions after a
"bop" turns on are therefore seldom validly readable. Just keep on with
an assessment but be careful to go over the ground again and again if
you're getting a "bop." Theta bops turn on fast and turn off slowly.

    They are not very important in diagnosis. They're more interesting
than vital.

    ~Rock slam~ (7). In assessing or running you occasionally get a rock
slam.

    A rock slam is a crazy, irregular, unequal, jerky motion of the
needle, narrow as one inch or as wide as three inches happening several
times a second. The needle "goes crazy,"

                194 BOOK TWO

slamming back and forth, narrowly, widely, over on the left, over on the
right, in a mad war dance or as if it were frantically trying to escape.
It means ~hot terminal~ or ~hot~ anything in an assessment and takes
precedence over a fall.

    It differs from a theta bop, which has no precedence over a fall, in
that a theta bop is even and gentlemanly and a rock slam is as crazy as
a Commie agitator.

    If found in an assessment, use it, but make sure of what turned it
on before you buy. It means the item is hot.

    If found in running a process, just carry on. It means the going is
hot, so for heaven's sakes don't stop the session.

    ~Free needle~ (8). This is probably the least understood term and
needle action in all of E-metering.

    It means an idle, uninfluenced motion, no matter what you say. It
isn't just null, it's uninfluenced by anything (except body reactions).

    Man, it's really free.

    You'll know one when you see one. They're really pretty startling.
The needle just idles around and yawns at your questions on the subject.

    Use NULL as a word, not Free, if you're in doubt about it. A NULL
just doesn't fall on a question. It might fall on a similar question. A
free needle wouldn't fall if the psychiatrists surrendered in a body or
the Empire State Building fell down.

    A free needle means, when it's used as a term, "The preclear is
getting awful close to end phenomena."

    Tight needles (stuck) are far from free. A stuck needle can be made
to fall by advancing the sensitivity way up. Thus even a "stuck needle"
can be "null." But a free needle is not stuck or null. It just floats
around.

    ~Body reactions~ (9). The deep breathing of a preclear, a sigh, a
yawn, a sneeze, a stomach growl can any one of them make a needle react.

    Get a person on the cans. Turn the sensitivity high. Make him do the
following one at a time: sigh, yawn, breathe deeply, cough, laugh, knock
the cans together, lift a finger off the electrode (can), convulsively
grip the cans, scratch his head while holding the cans, scratch his leg,
rub a can against his or her shirt or skirt, rub his fingers

                THE E-METER 195

together without letting the cans touch, and stretch. Note the needle
reactions. Now have the person do all these things again as you read
them off. Now turn down the sensitivity knob so that the needle drops
one-third of a dial (about one and a half inches). Now with that
setting, read off the list to him and watch the needle.

    Do you see now why you don't run with high sensitivity?

    These are body reactions.

    The meter will also read basal metabolism, interesting because it
tells you if the preclear really is eating, or has eaten breakfast. Have
the preclear on the cans take a very deep breath. If a moment later the
needle falls half a dial (two inches or more) the preclear has a good
high basal metabolism. If he hasn't eaten breakfast, it won't fall like
that. On the second or third deep breath let out, the basal metabolism
stops registering, so the first time is the test, not subsequent tries.

    These are all more or less body reactions. They get in your road as
to movement and sneezes and they don't affect your processing as to
"cross currents" between auditor and preclear. So bear up under them and
skip them. They're not important once you know what they are.

    ~Stage Four~ (10). A stage four needle is important to identify when
met as it means this preclear is from Noplace as a case.

    A stage four is below a merely stuck needle. The preclear's thoughts
and a few of your questions have any bearing on the preclear's case.

    A stage four needle goes up about an inch or two (always the same
distance) and sticks and then falls, goes up, sticks, falls, about once
a second or so. It is very regular, always the same distance, always the
same pattern, over and over, on and on, and nothing you say or the
preclear says changes it (except body reactions).

    Break through this meter action by pulling withholds or unkind
thoughts or the Control, Communication, Havingness processes, and you
have busted the lowest level of the case.

    But it's a disheartening phenomenon. The E-meter just doesn't react
to anything except a kick in the head. Up,

                196 BOOK TWO

stick, fall, up, stick, fall. On and on like a metronome set for the
~Dead March of Saul~. Know it when you see it. Until you break it,
there's no case change.


¤E-Meter Watching¤


    An E-meter reacts instantly on the reactive mind. An OT doesn't
react because he is able to be conscious. An aberree reacts because he
can't think without thought exciting the reactivity of the reactive
mind. This, being composed of mass, energy, space, time and thought,
responds to tiny electrical impulses.

    If your auditing was not aimed at reactivity it would not register
on a meter. Thus, you run what reacts because it reacts and is therefore
part of the reactive mind.

    The reactive mind responds instantly on data a billion years ago.
How is this? Time in the reactive mind is out of order. So is space. So
is matter, so is energy. Pin a sign on the reactive mind: "Out of
Order." It connects wrong connections, hence, the E-meter.

    What is wrong with the pc is not known to the pc. Therefore if a pc
knows all about it, it isn't wrong with him.

    That's why you never run what the pc says. You run ~only~ what the
meter says.

    Now, why are assessments wrong sometimes? Because the auditor is
persuaded by the pc, not the meter. ~If~ the pc and the meter agree, so
what. You can still run it. But only if the meter says so, for only then
is it reactive.

    1. The pc does not have to be given a chance to think before the
needle responds.

    2. The pc does not have to answer or say one word to make the needle
respond.

    3. All needle response is reactive.

    4. There is not time in the reactive mind.

    5. If the pc knew what was wrong with him it wouldn't be wrong.

    6. Only the meter knows.

    7. The auditor has more control over the pc's reactive mind than the
pc since the pc is influenced by the reactive mind responses and the
auditor is not so influenced.

                THE E-METER 197

    The meter responds instantly. The reaction you will get on the
needle starts to occur on the needle a fraction of a second after you
utter it.

    There is no need to sit there afterwards waiting for the needle to
respond again, for it won't until ~you~ push that button again.

    The only wait is caused by letting the needle come back at the end
of a fall. This may make one second.

    Therefore, TO WAIT MORE THAN THREE SECONDS BEFORE
UTTERING THE NEXT WORD ON THE LIST IS A COMPLETE WASTE
OF AUDITING TIME.

    All the response you want will begin to occur instantly after you
utter a question. Thus the maximum time between questions is at most a
three second interval of silence while you digest the data.

    Further, on an assessment, you do not now say, "Do you . . ." or any
other dunnage. You just say the question itself, note response, put a
pencil point down on the line if it responds, say the next, etc., etc.
Takes about five minutes to run down the list.

    The pc doesn't have to say a word throughout the whole assessment.
You can even ask him politely not to, as breath going in and out in
speech can vibrate the needle.

    All auditing actions and questions are done effectively, neither
frantically rushed nor slowly.
Don't wait for the E-meter to play Dixie. It was made in the Nawth.

    A read is a small fall ("SF"), Fall ("F"), Long Fall ("LF"), or Long
Fall Blowdown* ("LFBD"). A "stop" is not a read. A "tick"* is always
noted and in some cases becomes a wide read.

    THINGS THAT DON'T READ WON'T RUN.

    When you go around running unreading items you get low* and high TA*
trouble.

    One does NOT tell the pc anything about the meter or its reads ever,
except to indicate an F/N.

    Steering a pc with "that, that, that" on something reading is
allowable. But that isn't putting attention on the meter but on his
bank.

                198 BOOK TWO

    Definition of "In Session" is "pc interested in own case and willing
to talk to the auditor." Saying, "that reads," "that didn't read," "that
blew down," is illegal. It is no substitute for TR 2. It violates the In
Session definition by putting the pc's attention on the meter and can
make him very unwilling to talk to the auditor!

    A survey of auditing has brought up the datum that the gross
auditing error in failure to obtain results lies wholly in the inability
to read an E-meter.

    You may some day get a huge reality on the fact that, in supervising
auditing, all failures are gross auditing errors, not flukey case
differences.

    Auditors often demand "an extraordinary solution" because such and
such a case isn't moving. The unwise supervisor will actually furnish
"extraordinary solution" after "extraordinary solution," "to handle this
different case." It may be John Jones who "cannot think of any changes
in his life" or it may be Mary Smith who "just doesn't respond!" And the
supervisor burns the midnight oil and gives the auditor some new
involved solution. Then as often as not, the auditor comes back the day
after and says, "That didn't work either." And the supervisor goes a
quarter around the bend and again burns the midnight oil. . . . If this
seems familiar to you as a supervisor, know you ~should~ have asked,
"~What~ didn't work?" Usually the auditor can't even recall the
solution--it was never used. Or it was applied in some strange fashion.

    For ~today~, the reasons for failure all lie under the heading
"Gross Auditing Error."

    Such an error would be, the auditor never arrived for the session,
the E-meter was broken throughout, the pc hadn't eaten or slept for
three days, the din from construction next door made it impossible to
give commands or hear answers. The auditor didn't run any known process.
That is the order of magnitude of a "Gross Auditing Error." It is never,
the pc was unhappy, the pc has difficulty remembering, etc. In
supervising auditing, ~always~ look for the gross auditing error and
~never~ give out an extraordinary solution.

    The auditors who were having trouble couldn't read an E-meter.

                THE E-METER 199

    The errors went like this:

    1. The auditor believed the E-meter could not be read while the
needle was swinging around. The auditor was waiting until it stopped
every time before asking a question.

    2. The auditor believed the needle had to be exactly at "set" on the
dial before it could be read.

    3. The auditor did not know a rising needle could be read by
stopping the rise with a question or making the needle twitch.

    4. The auditor had not done the body reaction drills and was reading
only body reactions and ignoring all others.

    5. The auditor thought an E-meter could not be read if it showed
breathing or heartbeat.

    6. The auditor always looked at the pc for a few seconds after
asking the question, then looked at the meter, and so missed all but
latent (non-significant) reads.

    7. The auditor sat staring at the meter for twenty seconds after the
reading had registered.

    8. The auditor thought E-meters could be fooled so easily, it was
more reliable to make up his own mind about what the pc's item or guilt
was.

    9. An auditor thought that if the needle rose on a rudiment
question, the rudiment was out.

    Get cases started by learning to really read an E-meter.


¤How To Smooth Out Needles¤


    Quite often a pc is found whose needle is jerky, random, gives many
prior and latent reads and goes into small scratchy patterns or wild,
continuing rock slams.

    Such a needle is hard to read--and such a pc is a long way out of
session a lot of the time.

    An auditor, seeing such a needle, and faced with the task of reading
the instant read through all these prior and latents and scratchy
patterns, tends to think in terms of heroic measures. It is "obvious"
that this pc has W/Hs, missed W/Hs, overts* and secrets to end all
reactive banks and that the thing one ought to do is pick each one of
these random needle reactions up as soon as possible. ~BUT~ when you try
to do this you find the needle gets even ~more~ confused. It reads
something all the time!

                200 BOOK TWO

    An extreme case of a dirty, random needle is not solved by "fish and
fumble" or heroic measures.

    The pc's needle reacts that way because of ~no confidence~, which
induces a sort of auto-control in session which induces a dirty needle.
~Ability to predict equals confidence~.

    The thing to do is give this pc about three sessions of rudiments
and havingness--just model session severely with no Q and A or added
chit-chat. The sessions should be each one about one hour long.

    All one does is do model session, getting the rudiments in carefully
exactly by the text book. Avoid any Q and A.

    By doing this perfect, predictable text book auditing session, three
times on the pc, most of these prior and latent reads will drop out and
the needle will look much cleaner. Why? Because the pc is off auto or
"in session."

    You can ~make~ a pc's needle get dirty and react to many odd
thoughts by the pc by doing the following:

    1. Try to clean off prior reads and avoid instant reads in getting
ruds in.

    2. Use a scruffy and ragged session pattern.

    3. Double question any rudiments question.

    The pc's needle, even if very clean and loose at the start, will
tighten up and develop patterns if an auditor fails to use a text book
session. New pcs particularly require a severely text book session.
Don't think because they're new they won't know.

    A pc who has become unwilling to be audited is best cured by three
text book flawless sessions as above. Just establish a standard of
excellence the pc can predict. And up will come the pc's confidence.

    There ~are~ no difficult pcs. There are only auditors who do not
give text book sessions.

    If your pc has a ~dirty needle~, its cause is CUT ITSA or a
~session~ ARC break.

    ~NO~ other source such as earlier engrams can cause a dirty needle.

    If it's a dirty needle its cause lies in basic auditing not in
technique errors.

    This rule is invariable. The ~apparent~ exception is the session ARC
break that keys in bypassed technique charge.

                THE E-METER 201

    An auditor whose basic auditing is poor (who Qs and As, cuts itsa,
invalidates or evaluates, or who misses meter reads on rudiments or
cleans cleans* or misses withholds) can be spotted by his pc's dirty
needle. It's an invariable sign.

    ~If the pc has a dirty needle, the basic auditing of the auditor is
bad~.

    That auditor ought to put one of his sessions on tape and listen to
it and analyze it.

    Oddly enough, an auditor could run perfect technique and yet be so
poor in basic auditing that the pc is always ARC breaking. This would be
spotted by the pc's chronically dirty needle.

    You may see a dirty ~read~* on a pc while assessing. This means
nothing as long as it is a dirty ~read~. A dirty needle, of course,
jitters all the time.

    By their pc's needles you can know them.

    A "dirty needle" indicates that a pc has withholds or is ARC broken.

    If a DIRTY NEEDLE (ragged, jerky, ticking needle, not sweeping) is
seen by the Examiner or the auditor prior to the pc receiving Dianetic
auditing, the pc should have a Scientology review before Dianetic
auditing is begun.

    The needle of a preclear with an ARC break may be dirty, stuck or
sticky, but may ~also~ give the appearance of FLOATING. This is ~not~ a
release point however, as the pc will be upset and out of comm at the
same time. The auditor must observe the preclear and determine which it
is.

    When a student auditor's pc develops a dirty needle ("DN") it is
caused by one of three things:

    1. The auditors TRs are bad.

    2. The auditor is breaking the Auditor's Code.

    3. The pc has withholds (W/Hs) he does not wish known.

    The remedy for TRs is to have the auditor do them in clay, showing
the lines and actions of each TR. And to do more TRs with a fellow
student auditor.

    The remedy for code breaks is to have the auditor define and
demonstrate in clay invalidation and evaluation.

                202 BOOK TWO

And to list examples of possible upsets caused by breaking each line of
the code.

    The remedy for the pc with withholds is handling out-rudiments.

    It is a safe rule in any event that when a "dirty needle" occurs to
send the preclear to a Scientology Review auditor.

    It is also a safe rule to assume that the auditor whose pcs get
dirty needles is deficient on TRs and the Auditor's Code.


¤Tone Arm Action (TA)¤


    The skill of an auditor is directly measured by the amount of TA he
or she can get. Pcs are not more difficult one than another. Any pc can
be made to produce TA. But some auditors cut TA more than others.

    The state of case of the pc has nothing to do with getting tone arm
action. An auditor is in absolute control of the bank--it always does
what you tell it to do. A case ~must not~ be run without TA action or
with minimal TA action. If it didn't occur, tone arm action has to have
been prevented! It doesn't just "not occur."

    The most vital necessity of auditing is to get tone arm action. Not
to worry the pc about it but just get TA action. Not to find something
that will get future TA. But just to get TA NOW.

    Many auditors are still measuring their successes by things found or
accomplished in the session. Though this is important too, it is
secondary to tone arm action.

    1. Get good tone arm action.

    2. Get things done in the session to increase tone arm action.

    And body motion doesn't count as TA.

    Without tone arm motion no charge is being released and no actual
case betterment is observed beyond a few somatics removed. The pc's
session goals stay the same. The pc's life doesn't change.

    THE MOST CORRECT TRACK SIGNIFICANCES RUN BUT
WITHOUT TA ACTION WILL NOT CHANGE BUT CAN
DETERIORATE A CASE. It takes the right

                THE E-METER 203

process correctly run to get TA action. So don't underrate processes or
the action of the auditor.

    TA MOVING SIGNALS AUDITOR NOT TO ACT. TA NOT
MOVING SIGNALS AUDITOR TO ACT.

    Your enemy is over-restimulation of the pc. As soon as the pc goes
into more charge than he or she can itsa easily the TA slows down! And
as soon as the pc drowns in the over-restimulation the TA stops clank!

    A blowdown is a period of relief and cognition to a pc while it is
occurring and for a moment after it stops.

    Therefore it is a serious goof for an auditor to speak or move
during the blowdown or for a moment afterwards.

    ~An auditor must not speak or move during a blowdoum~.

    When the auditor has to move the TA from right to left to keep the
needle on the dial and the movement is 0.1 divisions or more then a
blowdown is occurring. The needle of course is falling to the right.

    That is a period of charge blowing off the bank. It is accompanied
by realizations for the pc. Sometimes the pc does not voice them aloud.
They nevertheless happen.

    If the auditor speaks or moves beyond adjusting the TA quietly with
his thumb the pc may suppress the cognitions and stop the blowdown.

    To see if a needle floats the TA must be halted for a moment between
2 and 3 on a calibrated meter. A floating needle cannot be observed
during a blowdown.

    For an auditor to sit up suddenly and look surprised or pleased, or
for an auditor to say the next command or "That's it" during a blowdown
can jolly well wreck a pc's case. So it's a real goof to do so.

    To get auditing results one must audit with a good comm cycle,
accept the pc's answers, handle the pc's originations, and be
unobtrusive with his auditing actions. One should not hold the pc up
while he writes, not develop tricks like waiting for the pc to look at
him before giving the next command, not prematurely acknowledge and so
start compulsive itsa, and be very quiet during and just after a
blowdown.

    It is also a serious goof for the auditor to speak or move during a
blowdown of the tone arm.

                204 BOOK TWO

    When a tone arm has to be moved rapidly down, the needle ~appears~
to float to some but it is just falling.

    To see if a needle is floating the TA must have stopped moving down.

    An auditor must set the sensitivity of an E-meter exactly right for
~each~ pc.

    The setting is different for almost every pc.

    Too low a sensitivity on some pcs (like Sens 5-32) will obscure
reads and make them look like ticks. It will obscure an F/N. Whereas a
Sens 16-128 will show reads and F/Ns.

    When auditing a pc who is doing well or an advanced preclear, the
auditor who sets the sensitivity too high gets weird impressions of the
case.

    "Latent reads" on such a case are common. They aren't latent at all.
What happens is that the F/N is more than a dial wide at high
sensitivity and a started F/N looks like a read as its sweep is stopped
by the pin on the right of the dial.

    In this way uncharged items are taken up, the case is slowed,
overrun and general upsets requiring repairs occur.

    A Clear sometimes has a floating TA* at Sens 32-32 instead of an
F/N. He would have to be run at Sens 3-32 two cans to keep him on a dial
or detect F/Ns.

    This is a ~very~ important matter as the auditor will miss F/Ns,
think beginning F/Ns are reads and as the pre-OT is off the dial, miss
reads.

    Thus uncharged areas are run and charged ones are missed.

    The result is very chaotic to repair.

    Some lower level pcs also have a need for lower sensitivity
settings.

    Sometimes an easy pc looks very difficult just because of wrong
sensitivity settings.

    Set the sensitivity for the pc for a half dial F/N maximum or
minimum.

    Don't get repairs.

    Get wins.

                THE E-METER 205


¤Meter Trim Check¤


    E-meters can go out of trim during a session because of temperature
changes.

    Thus even if the meter is properly calibrated and reads at 2.0 with
a 5,000 ohm resistor across the leads and 3.0 with 12,500 ohms, by the
end of the session a pc can be apparently reading below 2.0 because the
meter is off trim.

    The following meter procedure is therefore to be followed AT THE END
OF EACH SESSION (AFTER GIVING "THAT'S IT"):

    1. Don't move the trim knob.

    2. Pull out the jack plug.

    3. Move the TA until the needle is on "set" at the sensitivity you
were using in the session.

    4. Record the TA position at the bottom of the Auditor's Report Form
as: "Trim check--TA= . . ."

    5. If your meter is known to be out of calibration (as above) record
also: "Calibration error-- . . . on meter = 2.0 actual" at the bottom of
the form.

    ~You must never never never have your meter in a position where the
preclear can read the TA~.

    To do so can cause the pc to worry about his TA position and take
his attention off his case.

    It violates Clause 17 of the Auditor's Code.


¤False TA¤


    Some pcs have a ~very~ difficult time in auditing due solely to can
(electrode) outnesses.

    Some auditors have heavy losses because they do not realize the
troubles that can come from electrodes and thus remedy them.

    The TA must be between 2 and 3 for a correct F/N.

    When the TA is reading falsely a pc can be butchered.

    Example: Auditor talking the TA down. It gets to "3.1" by his meter.
So he gets the pc to talk a bit more to get the TA between 2 and 3 and
F/N. The TA suddenly rises to 3.8.

    Pc and auditor go desperate. What has happened is that the TA was a
false read. It was really reading 2.9 and F/Ning but for reasons given
below it read "3.1." Thus the

                206 BOOK TWO

auditor overran the F/N and by keeping on invalidated the release,
pulled the pc's attention out of session and demanded more than the pc
had to give.

    Example: Auditor two-way communicating with pc to get the TA up from
"1.8." The TA suddenly sinks to1.6, pc goes into apathy.

    What happened was a missed F/N. For reasons covered below the TA at
1.8 was false and was really at 2.1 and F/Ning.

    Example: Pc being asked for an earlier similar incident because TA
is at "4.0." Pc can't get one, gets desperate, TA goes to 5.0.

    For reasons given below the TA was at 3.0 but was reading falsely at
"4.0."

    Some cases get upset at the very idea of F/N when these mistakes are
made.

    More than one case has missed all his wins for a year because of a
false TA.

    So it is very important to know how a false TA comes about and how
to avoid it.

    A ~properly set up meter with cans (electrodes) fitted to a pc who
is holding them properly IS ALWAYS CORRECT~.

    However, totally false tone arm readings can exist and ~an auditor
must know how these come about~.

    A meter can be improperly trimmed (not set at 2.0 with the trim
knob) and can give a false TA position.

    Further, when a meter is not left on a minute or two before
trimming, it can drift in the session and give a slightly false TA.

    The trim can be quietly checked mid-session by snapping out the jack
where the cord goes into the box and putting the TA on 2, seeing if the
needle is now on SET. If not, the trim knob can be moved to adjust it.
The jack is quietly slipped back in. All without distracting the pc.

    A cadmium cell meter discharges very suddenly when it does go flat.

    In mid-session the meter can run out of battery. The TA will cease
to act well and may go very false.

    The remedy is to keep a meter charged at least one hour for every
ten of auditing for 240 AC volt charging

                THE E-METER 207

current, or two hours for every ten of auditing on a 110 AC volt
charging current.

    A meter lasts much longer than this in practice but the above is
very safe.

    Before each session snap the knob over to TEST. The needle should
hit ~hard~ on the right side of the face. It can even bounce. This
guarantees lots of charge in the battery and no chance of a meter going
flat in session.

    If the needle doesn't snap to the right hard or if it doesn't quite
get there on TEST, then that meter will go flat in mid-session and give
false TA and no reads or TA on hot subjects.

    When a pc's hands sweat a lot you will get a low TA.

    Contrary to 19th century superstition the meter does not work on
sweat. Very sweaty hands as found on nervous persons gives a false TA.
It goes low.

    ~Many~ "low TA cases" are just sweaty hand cases.

    Paper handkerchiefs (Kleenex) are a standard item for an auditing
room--for grief charges and burning eyes, etc. These should be
available.

    If the TA is low, check if the pc's hands are wet. If so have him
wipe them and get a new read. It is usually found that the 1.6 was
really 2.0. Or the 1.6 was really 1.8 and the trim was 1.8 = 2.0.

    Have the pc wipe hands, check and correct trim before you bypass all
a "low TA's" F/Ns!

    TAs can go low. Invalidation of the pc, lousy TRs can drive one low.
If so the TA comes back up on repair.

    But don't brand a case a low TA case until you make sure his hands
are dried and the meter trimmed.

    Also, very small cans or cans too small for the pc can give a
slightly low reading.

    Some pcs have extremely dry hands, usually from industrial chemicals
such as chlorine in dish water or skin scale.

    This can give a wildly high TA.

    The pc can be worried to death with high TA repairs when in fact he
just doesn't have contact with the electrodes.

                208 BOOK TWO

    Metal foot plates connected to the meter and the pc barefooted in
session will usually handle.

    A quick test is have the pc put the cans under his armpits and
you'll see if its his calloused or chemically dried out hands.

    A rare pc is so crippled with arthritis that he doesn't make contact
fully with the cans.

    This gives a high TA.

    Use foot plates or wide wrist straps and you'll right read.

    Sometimes a rare pc lets his hands go slack on the cans,
particularly if they are the wrong size cans, too big.

    This gives a mysterious "high TA." It is false. The TA will come
down only to 3.2 and F/N and of course an overrun then really gives a
high TA. And the pc goes a bit frantic and begins to believe things
don't erase or release.

    Keep the pc's hands in sight. Check the pc's grip. Get smaller cans.

    The most common fault is wrong can size.

    For a normal or large handed pc the can size is about 4 7/8ths
inches by 2 5/8th inches or 12 1/2 cm by 7 cm. This can be altered as
big as 4 1/2 inches by 3 inches diameter or 11 cm by 8 cm. This is
standard.

    This can is too large for people with small hands. These should use
a can 3 3/4" by 2 1/8th inches or 9 cm by 5 cm diameter or thereabouts.

    A small child would be lost even with that can. So a small 35 mm
film can could be used. This is 2 inches long by 1 3/16th" diameter or 5
cm by 3 cm. This works but watch it as these cans are aluminum. They do
work but test for true read with a slightly larger can and then trim to
adjust for the aluminum if any different.

    Cans of course should be STEEL with a thin tin plating. Regular soup
cans.

    Can size to match the pc avoids slack can grip or tiring the hands
into going slack, giving the auditor 3.2 F/Ns and trouble.

    A pc who is too cold sometimes has a falsely high TA.

    Wrap him in a blanket or get a warmer auditing room.

                THE E-METER 209

    The auditing environment is the responsibility of the auditor.

    Between 2 and 3 a.m. or late at night a pc's TA may be very high.
The time depends on when he sleeps usually.

    This TA will be found normal in regular hours.

    Rings on the pc's hands must always be removed. They don't influence
TA but they give a false rock-slam.

    Many an auditor before now has gone a bit mad trying to handle a
floating TA. They are not very common and are startling.

    What happens is the pc is so released the needle can't be gotten
onto the dial. The needle is swinging wider than the meter dial both
ways from center and appears to lay first on one side then the other.
The TA can't be moved fast enough to keep the extreme floating needle on
the dial.

    This gives a false TA of sorts as it can't be read.

    Some auditors seeing it for the first time have even sent the pc out
of the room so they could "adjust" the meter or get another one!

    Thus the very highest state of release can be invalidated as where
~is~ the TA?

    You'd think soup was very expensive the way some auditors hold onto
old cans.

    Corroded cans can falsify TA. Get new ones now and then.

    And then there was the vain lady who wore shoes too small for her
feet.

    She removed them every session. The session went well each time.

    Then she put on her agonizing shoes and went to the Examiner and the
C/Ses and auditors all went mad trying to find out why every exam had a
high TA.

    Tight shoes.

    The E-meter is accurate. It is a lovely instrument.

    You have to fit the pc to it.

    Regardless of can size, cold E-meter electrodes tend to give a much
higher tone arm reading particularly on some PCs.

    Until the cans warm up, the reading is generally false and is false
in the direction of high.

                210 BOOK TWO

    A chilled pc almost always has a high TA until he or she gets warm.
Just throwing a coat over the pc's shoulders can bring down a TA in a
cool room. But some pcs are "cold blooded" and the shock of ice cold
cans can drive the TA up and it takes a while to drift down.

    This has a great effect on examinations where the cans are used very
briefly.

    A practice which gets around this is for the auditor or Examiner to
hold the cans briefly until they are warm and then give them to the pc.
A variation is for the auditor or Examiner to put the cans under his
armpits while setting up. This warms them.

    There are probably many other ways to warm up cans to body
temperature.

    Tests show that footplates do not give exactly the same read as hand
held electrodes on pcs who have nothing wrong with their hands.

    This is probably due to body imbalance. Cans held under the armpits
or under knees (not advised as there sometimes is a tiny electrical
sting) give varied reads from hand held cans.

    Where full weight rests on the footplates the read is also varied.

    To all practical purposes the differences can be neglected unless
they give trouble in getting F/Ns. One should simply be alert in using
footplates and find out the differences ~if~ new problems of false TA or
no F/Ns develop and handle any such trouble when it occurs. A person
used to going barefoot for instance would have foot callouses and would
give a false footplate TA.

    Some pcs (rare) take mistaken pride in being able to push the TA up
by straining or tensing.

    By just moving into the body the TA can be sent up by an otherwise
exterior pc.

    Some pcs also take a road out by "getting an F/N at will." They have
various tricks that do this, the main one being to "think of something
else" and get an F/N.

    Any of these (rare) pcs are manifesting out-of-sessionness. They
aren't in session.

                THE E-METER 211

    The definition of In Session is "interested in own case and willing
to talk to the auditor." Remedy that and they cease such tricks.

    Usually they aren't being run on what they are interested in or have
comm blocks or withholds or no confidence.

    They are easy to detect and easy to handle.

    There is an infinity of wrong ways to get a pc to read between 2.0
and 3.0 on an E-meter.

    One method would be to shoot him. Dead bodies read between 2.0 and
3.0.

    Another way is to throw the trim knob off.

    An auditor who is not very expert is apt to find strange ways to do
things because the usual is beyond his skill.

    The commonest sources of high TA are PROTEST, OVERTS and
out-INTERIORIZATION RUNDOWN and too big or too small cans.

    The commonest sources of low TA are overwhelming auditor TRs or wet
sweaty hands.

    The subject is not open to experimentation. If a pc's TA is low or
high and you don't correct it with the usual remedies mentioned above,
the pc goes into the soup.

    GOOD AUDITORS KNOW THEIR TECH AND USE IT TO REMEDY
HIGH AND LOW TAs.

    GOOD AUDITORS DO HONEST WORKSHEETS AND HONEST
AUDITING.

    BE A GOOD AUDITOR.

    A meter is a meter.

    Meters are used to measure water, natural gas, and many other
things.

    An ~E~-meter is used to measure a pc.

    If you rig a meter up so as to falsify its read you get a wrong
result.

    You could rig up a water meter so it read that twice as much water
had flowed and then sit around and wonder all week why the swimming pool
never filled up.

    The ACCURACY of a meter depends upon its being honestly set up and
honestly used.

    The HONESTY of the auditor determines his results.

                212 BOOK TWO

    The whole field of psychotherapy was dishonest from the days of
witch doctors to psychiatry. Falsified data came from lack of knowledge
of the mind. This made its practitioners DISHONEST.

    We do not and must not follow that fatal road.

    The technology we have WORKS to definite positive predictable
results.

    Results are obtained if the auditor has honestly studied and
understood his materials and honestly applies them.

    Falsifying study leads to falsifying meters and this gives bad
results on pcs.

    One who does not know his materials and who cannot do his drills
then thinks he has to make a meter cheat.

    HONEST use of the meter by an HONEST auditor is the route to GOOD
RESULTS.

    A bad practice has arisen to "beat" the low TA.

    This is to have the pc wipe his hands every few minutes to get the
TA up above 2.0.

    Not only does this distract the pc and yank him out of session, but
it is by inference putting his attention on the meter, a thing a good
auditor does NOT do in a formal session. The pc's attention must be on
his own case in a session, not on the meter or his hands.

    An answer to low TA because of wet hands is footplates.

    But the best answer is to get the pc up scale so he doesn't have
perspiring hands.

    Overwhelming TRs is the commonest reason for low TAs. Not all the
hand wiping in the world will cure poor TRs.

    Some auditors "spook" (leap off the road like a horse frightened by
something blowing along) at the very thought of high or low TAs. This is
because they haven't got the TRs to handle a low TA nor the tech to
handle a high one.

    One "auditor" "solved it" by just calling F/Ns whenever she got
tired of the pc regardless of TA position. After a year or more of this
she saw the light and became ethical.

    The funny part is that her co-auditor had been doing the same thing
on her!

    HONEST TA IS THE BEST POLICY.

                THE E-METER 213

    Apparently when a person has taken certain medicines or chemicals,
or uses detergent soaps or is in contact with certain chemicals (such as
those in some furniture polishes) the ordinary skin oils vanish. These
oils are needed to make an electrical contact with the cans.

    When these oils are absent, there is no adequate electrical contact
and the "TA is high."

    When a person is deficient in certain minerals or vitamins such as
magnesium or B Complex, his hands can be excessively wet.

    Either of these two conditions in hands ~or feet~ can produce an
incorrect TA position.

    The dry condition produces a false high TA.

    The overly wet condition produces a false low TA.

    The TA depends on normally moist hands. This does not mean the meter
works on "sweat." It does mean the meter works only when there is a
correct electrical contact.

    Too much and too greasy hand cream could produce too low a TA.

    Too much powder or drier could produce too high a TA.

    Therefore one must not go to extremes.

    The excessively "dry" hand is seen as shiny or polished looking. It
feels very dry.

    The correct treatment is to use a "vanishing cream" (obtainable from
any cosmetics store) not a greasy hand cream.

    The "vanishing cream" is so called because it rubs all the way into
the skin and leaves no excess grease.

    This restores normal electrical contact.

    There are many such creams. It makes no difference which is used so
long as it vanishes into the skin.

    It is doubtful if it would have to be applied more than once--at
session start--as it lasts for a long while.

    This would apply to some footplate cases as well (whose hands are
defective or too heavily calloused).

    If a cream leaves smears on a can, it is too heavily applied or too
little absorbed.

    Vanishing type cream is usually smeared on, rubbed in and can then
be thoroughly wiped off. The hands (or feet) will usually produce, then,
a normal TA and meter response.

                214 BOOK TWO

    Anti-perspirants can be applied to too wet hands. There are many
brands of these, often a powder or spray.

    It can be wiped off after application and should work for two or
three hours.

    It can be applied to hands or feet (for footplates).

    If the TA then goes too high, use vanishing cream on top of it.

    While much work could be done still, the above is enough for a
practical result.

    High TAs and low TAs do not widely F/N. If you are getting a wide
persistent F/N with the TA too high (above 3) or too low (below 2) you
have a pc whose hands are too dry or too wet. Using this information
should correct it and in future sessions you should continue the remedy
on ~that~ pc.

    NOTHING excuses the misreading or falsifying of a TA. Get the TA in
normal range with this data before you start calling processes ended.

    C/S 53RH* and the False TA Checklist are your tools for handling too
high and too low TAs.
The only other conditions I know of that make an auditor mess up a pc's
TA are:

    a. A discharged meter (registers high).

    b. An incorrectly set meter by trim button.

    c. A "fleeting F/N" where the pc F/Ns so briefly the auditor misses
it and overruns.

    d. Bad TRs.

    e. Unflat processes.

    f. Overrun processes.

    g. Heavy drugs or medicines.

     False TA often comes to light when the auditor runs out of reasons
it is high or low and it dawns on him that he is dealing with false TA.
In the latter case he should know all MATERIALS ON THE SUBJECT
OF FALSE TA AND REMEDY THE FALSE TA SITUATION AND
THEN RESUME NORMAL AUDITING. He must not go on calling
high or low TA F/Ns just by assuming the TA is false.

    Given a contact the meter always tells the truth.

                THE E-METER 215


                ¤~False TA Checklist~¤


    The following are the items to be checked by an auditor on any pc.
It need only be done once unless the check itself is suspected false, or
if conditions of the pc's hands etc., change.

    The checklist is kept in the pc folder and is entered on the folder
summary as an action done.

    The value of operating with correct can size should not be
underestimated.

    The auditor signs and answers the following points on the checklist,
and gets answers from the pc where needed.

                ----------------------------------


    R-factor to pc: "We are going to check the cans and adjust them to
get the best accuracy."

    1. Is the meter charged fully?  __

    2. Is the meter trimmed correctly?  __

    3. Are the leads connected to the meter and
        cans?  __

    4. Are the cans rusty?  __

    5. Are pc's hands excessively dry requiring vanishing cream?  __

    6. Are the pc's hands excessively wet requiring powder?  __

    7. The pc is ~NOT~ being told continually to wipe his hands?  __

    8. The pc's grip on the cans is ~NOT~ being continually checked by
        the auditor in a way that interrupts the pc? __

    9. TA position on large cans?
            Size approx. 4 7/8 inches by 2 5/8 inches
                                        or
                                12 1/2 em by 7 cm  __

                216 BOOK TWO

    10. TA position on medium cans?
                Size approx. 3 3/4 inches by 2 1/8 inches
                                             or
                                    9 cm. by 5 cm.  __

    11. TA position on small cans?
                Size approx. 2 inches by 1 3/16 inches
                                       or
                                    5 cm by 3 cm  __

    12. Are the cans too large for pc?  __

    13. Are the cans too small for pc?  __

    14. Are the cans just right in size? __

    15. Are the cans cold?  __

    16. Are the pc's hands dry or calloused?  __

    17. Does the pc have arthritic hands?  __

    18. TA position on foot plates?  __
         (Foot plates are used and TA checked on them
         when the answer to 16 & 17 is affirmative.)

    19. Are the pc's feet calloused or excessively wet or dry?  __

    20. Does the pc loosen his grip on the cans?  __

    21. Check the pc's grip, does he hold the cans correctly?  __

    22. Is the pc hot?  __

    22A. Is the pc well slept?  __

    23. Is the pc cold?  __

    23A. Is the pc hungry?  __

    24. Is it too late at night?  __

    25. Is auditing being done not in the pc's normal ~regular~ awake
          hours?  __

    26. Are there rings on the pc's hands?  __

    27. Is the pc wearing tight shoes?  __

                THE E-METER 217

    28. Is the pc wearing tight clothes?  __

    29. Is it actually chronic high or low TA
          case condition?  __

    30. Has the pc gone into despair over his TA?   __


    The handling of these points is stated above.

    The handling of high or low TA after checking these points is by C/S
53RH, Short Hi-Lo TA Assessment C/S.

    When a pc goes to the Examiner he ~must~ use footplates or the same
size cans as he uses in session.

    To fail to do this could falsely upset a pc and confuse the auditor
and C/S.

    The Examiner should have various sizes of cans on his table, and a
set of foot plates on the floor connected to its own leads, so that it
can be plugged in quickly when required.

    The Examiner should place a small clear sign in front of his meter
shield advising the pc to use the same sized cans or footplates as used
in session.


¤Summary¤


    It will be seen that the tone arm, the sensitivity knob, and the
needle form three distinctly different parts of E-meter operations.

    The tone arm shows case change and process action. The needle shows
case significance and reality. The sensitivity knob is a magnifying
glass for the needle.

    The ~needle~ shows ~what to run~. The ~tone~ arm shows ~how it is
running~.

    When searching, watch the needle.

    When running a process, watch the tone arm.

    The needle's most looked for reaction is the fall.

    The tone arm's most looked for reactions are: (a) change of
position, and (b) ceasing to change position.

    Skill with the meter comes from gaining great familiarity with it,
by handling and using it.

    Handle the meter. Study this book. Handle the meter. Become an
expert. Then read this book again and you'll be one.


                CHAPTER 3

                OBSERVING
                THE OBVIOUS

    Obnosis is a word put together from the phrase: "observing the
obvious." The art of observing the obvious is strenuously neglected in
our society at this time. Pity. It's the only way you ever see anything;
you observe the obvious. You look at the is-ness of something, at what
is actually there. Fortunately for us, the ability to obnose is not any
sense "inborn" or mystical. But it is being taught that way by people
outside of Dianetics and Scientology.

    How do you teach somebody to see what is there? Well, you put up
something for him to look at, and have him tell you what he sees. A
student is asked to stand up in front of the classroom and be looked at
by the rest of the students. A supervisor stands by and keeps asking,
"What do you see?" The first responses run about like this:

    "Well, I can see he's had a lot of experience."

    "Oh, can you? Can you really see his experience? What do you see
there?"

    "Well, I can tell from the wrinkles around his eyes and mouth that
he's had lots of experience."

                220 BOOK TWO

    "All right, but what do you see?"

    "Oh, I get you. I see wrinkles around his eyes and mouth."

    "Good!"

    The supervisor accepts nothing that isn't plainly visible.

    A student starts to catch on and says:

    "Well, I can really see he's got ears."

    "All right, but from where you're sitting can you see both ears
right now as you're looking at him?"

    "Well, no."

    "Okay. What do you see?"

    "I see he's got a left ear."

    "Fine!"

    No conjectures, no tacit assumptions will do. Nor are
the students permitted to wander in the bank.

    For example, "He's got good posture."

    "Good posture by comparison with what?"

    "Well, he's standing straighter than most people I've seen."

    "Are they here now?"

    "Well, no, but I've got pictures of them."

    "Come on. Good posture in relation to what that you can see right
now?"

    "Well, he's standing straighter than you are. You're a little
slouched."

    "Right this minute?"

    "Yes."

    "Very good."

    You see what the goal of this is? It is to get a student to the
point where he can look at another person or an object and see exactly
what is there. Not a deduction of what might be there from what he does
see there. Not something the bank says ought to go in company with what
is there. Just what is there, visible and plain to the eye. It's so
simple, it hurts.

    Along with this practice in observing the obvious about people,
students can be taught a lot of information about particular physical
and verbal indications of tone level. Things very easy to see and hear,
by looking at a person's body and listening to his words.
"Thetan-watching" has no

                OBSERVING THE OBVIOUS 221

part in obnosis. Look at the terminal, the body, and listen to what's
coming out of it. You don't want to get mystical about this, and start
relying on "intuition." Just look at what's there.

    As examples: You can get a good tip on chronic tone from what a
person does with his eyes. At apathy, he will give the appearance of
looking fixedly for minutes on end, at a particular object. Only thing
is, he doesn't see it. He isn't aware of the object at all. If you
dropped a bag over his head, the focus of his eyes would probably remain
the same. Moving up to grief, the person does look "downcast." A person
in chronic grief tends to focus his eyes down in the direction of the
floor a good bit. In the lower ranges of grief, his attention will be
fairly fixed, as in apathy. As he starts moving up into the fear band,
you get the focus shifting around, but still directed downward. At fear
itself, the very obvious characteristic is that the person can't look at
you. Terminals are too dangerous to look at. He's supposedly talking to
you, but he's looking over in left field. Then he glances at your feet
briefly, then over your head (you get the impression a plane's passing
over), but now he's looking back over his shoulder. Flick, flick, flick.
In short, he'll look anywhere but at you. Then, in the lower band of
anger, he will look away from you deliberately. You know, he looks away
from you; it's an overt communication break. A little further up the
line, and he'll look directly at you all right, but not very pleasantly.
He wants to locate you--as a target. Then, at boredom, you get the eyes
wandering around again, but not frantically as in fear. Also, he won't
be avoiding looking at you. He'll include you among the things he looks
at.

    Equipped with data of this sort, and having gained some proficiency
in looking at the is-ness of people, students are sent out into the
public to talk to strangers and to spot them on the tone scale. Usually,
but only as a slight crutch in approaching people, they are given a
series of questions to ask each person, and a clipboard for jotting the
answers, notes, etc. They are public opinion poll-takers from the Church
of Scientology. The real purpose of their talking to people at all is to
spot them on the tone scale, chronic tone

                222 BOOK TWO

and social tone. They are given questions calculated to produce lags and
break through social machinery, so that the chronic tone juts out.

    Here are some sample questions, actually used: "What's the most
obvious thing about me?" "When was the last time you had your hair cut?"
"Do you think people do as much work now as they did fifty years ago?"
At first, the students merely spot the tone of the person they are
interviewing--and many and various are the adventures they have while
doing this! Later, as they gain some assurance about stopping strangers
and plying them with questions, these instructions are added: "Interview
at least 15 people. With the first five, match their tone, as soon as
you've spotted it. The next five, you drop below their chronic tone, and
see what happens. For this last five, put on a higher tone than theirs."

    What does a student gain from these exercises? For one thing he
gains a willingness to communicate with anyone. To begin with, students
are highly selective about the sort of people they stop, e.g., only old
ladies, or no one who looks angry, or only people who look clean.
Finally, they just stop the next person who comes along, even though he
looks leprous and armed to the teeth. The student's confrontingness has
come way up, and this person is just somebody else to talk to. They
become willing to pinpoint a person on the scale, without
shilly-shallying. Then say, "He's a chronic 1.1 (per numbers on the Tone
Scale) social tone 3.5, but real phony." That's the way it is, and they
can see it.

    They also become quite gifted and flexible at assuming tones at
will, and putting them across convincingly. This is very useful in many
situations, and lots of fun to do. They grow adept at punching through a
comm lag in an informal situation, and at sorting out apparencies from
realities. The rise in certainty of communication, and in ease and
relaxation of manner while handling people, in the students who have
been run through this mill, is something which must be seen or
experienced to be believed. The one most often repeated request in every
course is: "can't we please have some more obnosis this week? We haven't
had enough of it yet." (This statement is very funny to Supervisors,
because

                OBSERVING THE OBVIOUS 223

these same students said at the beginning, "If you make me go out there,
I'll walk out on the course.") Obnosis is quite important, and should be
learned as thoroughly as possible by all Scientologists.

    Here are some scales used in Scientology and Dianetics, including a
Table of Reality-Spotting by
E-meter.


                       ¤Tone Scale¤


Tone Scale Expanded                 Know to Mystery Scale

Serenity of Beingness           40.0    Know
Postulates                      30.0    Not Know
Games                           22.0    Know About
Action                          20.0    Look
Exhilaration                     8.0    Plus Emotion
Aesthetic                        6.0
Enthusiasm                       4.0
Cheerfulness                     3.5
Strong Interest                  3.3
Conservatism                     3.0
Mild Interest                    2.9
Contented                        2.8
Disinterested                    2.6
Boredom                          2.5
Monotony                         2.4
Antagonism                       2.0    Minus Emotion
Hostility                        1.9
Pain                             1.8
Anger                            1.5
Hate                             1.4
Resentment                       1.3
No Sympathy                      1.2
Unexpressed Resentment           1.15
Covert Hostility                 1.1
Anxiety                          1.02
Fear                             1.0
Despair                           .98
Terror                            .96
Numb                              .94
Sympathy                          .9

                224 BOOK TWO

Propitiation (Higher Toned,       .8
    Selectively Gives)
Grief                             .5
Making Amends (Propi-             .375
    tiation, Can't Withhold
    Anything)
Undeserving                       .3
Self-Abasement                    .2
Victim                            .1
Hopeless                          .07
Apathy                            .05
Useless                           .03
Dying                             .01
Body Death                       0.0
Failure                          0.0
Pity                            -0.1
Shame (Being Other              -0.2
    Bodies)
Accountable                     -0.7
Blame (Punishing Other          -1.0
    Bodies)
Regret (Responsibility as       -1.3
    Blame)
Controlling Bodies              -1.5    Effort
Protecting Bodies               -2.2
Owning Bodies                   -3.0    Think
Approval from Bodies            -3.5
Needing Bodies                  -4.0    Symbols
Worshipping Bodies              -5.0    Eat
Sacrifice                       -6.0    Sex
Hiding                          -8.0    Mystery
Being Objects                  -10.0    Wait
Being Nothing                  -20.0    Unconscious
Can't Hide                     -30.0
Total Failure                  -40.0    Unknowable


                ¤Reality-Spotting by E-Meter¤


    Needle characteristics plotted on a scale with numerical
tone scale values. There are two scales: "old" Reality Scale
and "new" Reality Scale.

                OBSERVING THE OBVIOUS 225

Tone        Reality Scale                Needle
                 (Old)                  Characteristics

40-20    Postulates                  Produces meter
                                     phenomena at will.

20-4     Consideration               Free needle.

4-2      Agreements                  Free needle,
                                     drop at will.

1.5      Solid Terminals             Drop.

1.1      Terminals too               Theta bop.
         solid
         Lines solid

1-.5     No terminal
         Solid line                  Stuck, sticky.

.5-.1    No terminal
         Less solid line

.1       No real
         terminal
         No solid line               Rising needle.
         Substitute
         terminal

0.0      No terminal                 Stuck. Also
         No line                     stage four needle
                                     ("all machine--no pc").
                           ¤¤¤¤

Tone        Reality Scale                Needle
                 (New)                  Characteristics

40-20    Pan-Determined*         Produces meter
         Creation                phenomena at will.

20-4     Self-Determined*        Free needle.
         Creation

4-2      Experience              Free needle,
                                 drop at will.

1.5      Confront                Drop.

1.1      Elsewhereness           Theta bop.


1-.5     Invisibility            Stuck, sticky.


.5-.1    Blackness


.1       Dub-In
         (no confront,
         not-isness)*            Rising needle.

0.0      Unconsciousness         Stuck. Also
                                 stage four needle
                                 ("all machine--no pc").


    For complete description of human behavior at the above tone levels,
study ~Science of Survival~ with the "Chart of Human Evaluation." Learn
also the "Hubbard Chart of
Attitudes."

    The above chart of correlations applies in two ways:
    1. by the chronic standard reaction of the preclear,
    2. by type of material contacted.


                ¤The 55 Human Perceptions¤


  1. Time
  2. Sight
  3. Taste
  4. Color

                226 BOOK TWO

  5. Solidity (Barriers)
  6. Relative Sizes (External)
  7. Sound
  8. Pitch
  9. Tone
10. Volume
11. Rhythm
12. Smell (4 subdivisions)
13. Touch (4 subdivisions)
14. Personal Emotion
15. Endocrine States
16. Awareness of Awareness
17. Personal Size
18. Organic Sensation (including Hunger)
19. Heartbeat
20. Blood Circulation
21. Cellular and Bacterial Position
22. Gravitic (Self and other weights)
23. Motion of Self
24. Motion (Exterior)
25. Body Position
26. Joint Position
27. Internal Temperature
28. External Temperature
29. Balance
30. Muscular Tension
31. Saline Content of Self (Body)
32. Fields/Magnetic
33. Time Track Motion
34. Physical Energy (Personal Weariness, etc.)
35. Self-Determinism (Relative on each Dynamic)
36. Moisture (Self)
37. Sound Direction
38. Emotional State of other Organs
39. Personal Position on the Tone Scale
40. Affinity (Self and others)
41. Communication (Self and Others)
42. Reality (Self and Others)
43. Emotional State of Groups
44. Compass Direction

                OBSERVING THE OBVIOUS 227

45. Level of Consciousness
46. Pain
47. Perception of Conclusions (Past and Present)
48. Perception of Computation (Past and Present)
49. Perception of Imagination (Past and Present)
50. Perception of Having Perceived (Past and Present)
51. Awareness of Not-Knowing
52. Awareness of Importance, Unimportance
53. Awareness of Others
54. Awareness of Location and Placement
      a. Masses
      b. Spaces
      c. Location Itself
55. Perception of Appetite (Problem covered under 18)


¤Bad Indicators¤


  1. Pc not wanting to be audited.
  2. Pc protesting auditing.
  3. Pc looking worse after auditing.
  4. Pc not able to locate incidents easily.
  5. Pc "not having time for auditing."
  6. Pc less certain.
  7. Pc not doing well in life.
  8. Somatics not blowing or erasing.
  9. Pc in ethics trouble after auditing.
10. Pc protesting auditor actions.
11. Pc wandering all over track.
12. Pc misemotional at session end.
13. Pc demanding unusual solutions.
14. Skin tone dull.
15. Eyes dull.
16. Pc trying to self audit* in or out of session.
17. Pc continuing to complain of old somatics after they
      have been run.
18. Pc dependence on medical treatment not lessening.
19. Pc using, or continuing to use, other treatments.
20. Pc lethargic.
21. Pc not becoming more cheerful.
22. Pc wanting special auditing.

                228 BOOK TWO

23. No TA action on running incidents.
24. Pc not cogniting.
25. Pc dispersed.
26. Pc trying to explain condition to auditor or others.
27. Pc bored with auditing.
28. Pc not available for sessions.
29. Pc tired.
30. Pc attention on auditor.
31. Pc not wanting to run the process or incident.
32. Pc overwhelmed.
33. Pc taking drugs or excessive alcohol.
34. Pc not sure that auditing works for him.
35. Pc continuing former practices.
36. Pc not handling environment more easily.
37. Pc sick between sessions.
38. Pc not going on to next grade or level.


¤Good Indicators¤


  1. Pc cheerful or getting more cheerful.
  2. Pc cogniting.
  3. Fundamental rightnesses of pc asserting themselves.
  4. Pc giving things to auditor briefly and accurately.
  5. Pc finding things rapidly.
  6. Meter reading properly.
  7. What's being done giving proper meter response.
  8. What's being found giving proper meter response.
  9. Pc running rapidly and flattening by TA or cognitions.
10. Pc giving auditor information easily.
11. Needle cleanly swinging about.
12. Pc running easily and if pc encounters somatics they
      are discharging.
13. Tone arm goes down when pc hits a cognition.
14. Further TA blowdown as pc continues to talk about
      something.
15. Expected meter behavior and nothing unexpected in
      meter behavior.
16. Pc gets warm and stays warm in auditing or gets hot and
      unheats while in auditing.
17. Pc has occasional somatics of brief duration.

                OBSERVING THE OBVIOUS 229

18. Tone arm operating in the range of 2.0 to 3.5.
19. Good TA action on spotting things.
20. Meter reading well on what pc and auditor think is
      wrong.
21. Pc not much troubled with present time problems and they
      are easily handled when they occur.
22. Pc stays certain of the auditing solution.
23. Pc happy and satisfied with auditor regardless of what
      auditor is doing.
24. Pc not protesting auditor's actions.
25. Pc looking better by reason of auditing.
26. Pc feeling more energetic.
27. Pc without pains, aches or illnesses developing during
      auditing. Does not mean pc shouldn't have somatics.
      Means pc shouldn't get sick.
28. Pc wanting more auditing.
29. Pc confident and getting more confident.
30. Pc's itsa free but only covers subject.
31. Auditor easily seeing how it was or is on pc's case by
      reason of pc's explanations.
32. Pc's ability to itsa and confront improving.
33. Pc's bank getting straightened out.
34. Pc comfortable in the auditing environment.
35. Pc appearing for auditing on his own volition.
36. Pc on time for session and willing and ready to be audited
      but without anxiety about it.
37. Pc's trouble in life progressively lessening.
38. Pc's attention becoming freer and more under pc's
      control.
39. Pc getting more interested in data and technology of
      Dianetics and Scientology.
40. Pc's havingness in life and livingness improving.
41. Pc's environment becoming more easily handled.


                CHAPTER 4

                END PHENOMENA

    Now and then you will get a protest from preclears about "floating
needles."

    The preclear feels there is more to be done yet the auditor says,
"Your needle is floating."

    A lot of by-passed charge can be stirred up which upsets the
preclear.

    The reason this subject of floating needles gets into trouble is
that the auditor has not understood a subject called END PHENOMENA.

    END PHENOMENA is defined as "those indicators in the pc and meter
which show that a chain or process is ended." It shows in Dianetics that
basic on that chain and flow has been erased and in Scientology that the
pc has been released on that process being run. A new flow or a new
process can be embarked upon, of course, when the end phenomena of the
previous process is attained.

    Floating needles are only one-fourth of the end phenomena in all
Dianetic auditing.

                232 BOOK TWO

    Any Dianetic auditing has four definite reactions in the pc which
show the process is ended.

    1. Floating needle

    2. Cognition

    3. Very good indicators (pc happy) (VGIs)

    4. Erasure of the final picture audited.

    Auditors get panicky about overrun. If you go past the ~end
phenomena~ the F/N will pack up (cease) and the TA will rise.

    BUT that's if you go past all four parts of the end phenomena, not
past a floating needle.

    If you watch a needle with care and say nothing but your R3R
commands, as it begins to float you will find:

    1. It starts to float narrowly.

    2. The pc cognited ("What do you know, so that's . . .") and the
float widens.

    3. Very good indicators come in, the float gets almost full dial,
and

    4. The picture, if you inquired, has erased and the needle goes full
dial.

    That is the full end phenomena of Dianetics.

    If the auditor sees a float start, as in 1 above and says, "I would
like to indicate to you your needle is floating," he can upset the pc's
bank.

    There is still charge. The pc has not been permitted to cognite.
VGIs surely won't appear and a piece of the picture is left.

    By being impetuous and fearful of overrun, or just being in a hurry,
the auditor's premature (too soon) indication to the pc suppresses three
quarters of the pc's end phenomena.

    Did you know that you could go through a picture half a dozen times,
the F/N getting wider and wider without the pc cogniting? This is rare
but it can happen once in a hundred. The picture hasn't been erased yet.
Bits of it seem to keep popping in. Then it erases fully and now, 2, 3
and 4 occur. This isn't grinding. It's waiting for the F/N to broaden to
cognition.

    The pc who complains about F/Ns is really stating the wrong problem.
The actual problem was the auditor dis-

                END PHENOMENA 233

tracting the pc from cognition by calling attention to himself and the
meter a moment too soon.

    The pc who is still looking inward gets upset when his attention is
jerked outward. Charge is then left in the area. A pc who has been
denied his full end phenomena too often will begin to refuse auditing.


¤Floating Needles¤


    A floating needle is the idle uninfluenced movement of the needle on
the dial without any patterns or reactions in it. It can be as small as
one inch or as large as dial wide. It does not fall or drop to the right
of the dial. It moves to the left at the same speed as it moves to the
right. It is observed on a Mark V E-meter calibrated with the TA between
2.0 and 3.0 with good indicators (GIs) in on the pc. It can occur after
a cognition blowdown of the TA or just moves into floating. The pc may
or may not voice the cognition.

    It by the nature of the E-meter reading below the awareness of the
thetan occurs just before the pc is aware of it. So to give a "That's
it" on the occurrence of the F/N can prevent the pc from getting the
cognition.

    One does not sit and study and be sure of an "F/N." It swings or
pops, he lets the pc cognite and then indicates the F/N to the pc
preventing overrun.

    You should not cut into the pc's end phenomena with premature
questions or F/N indications. The pc is introverted and such actions by
the auditor extrovert his attention and annoy the pc and spoils the
correct end phenomena which is F/N + cognition + VGIs.

    Actions by the auditor such as "Your needle is floating," "Did it
erase?" etc., chop the pc ~before~ full end phenomena is attained.

    Feeding the pc the end phenomena (EP) of a process or action is
illegal and very out-tech.

    Example: Auditor asks pc "since the last session did (stating the
EP)."

    Or "In this session did (stating the EP)."

    This is evaluating for the pc. The pc has to make it himself then he
truly makes it.

                234 BOOK TWO

    The correct way to check to see if a pc has made an EP (rare as pcs
usually tell their auditor their cognitions, etc.) would be to ask "Did
anything occur?" or "Since your last session did anything occur?" If the
pc then states the EP or words to that effect, with F/N and VGIs, the
process can be terminated or if necessary, rehabbed and terminated. If
the pc does not state the EP the auditor then knows to continue the
process.

    Usually sessions aren't ended before F/N, VGIs and EP on a process.
It's easier on the C/S, auditor and pc to complete a cycle of action in
the one session.

    A floating needle always occurs when the basic on a chain erases.

    A floating needle is valid only between 2.0 and 3.0 tone arm
position on a meter.

    Above or below that tone arm reading, the F/N is called an "ARC
break" needle. Additionally, a floating needle between 2.0 and 3.0 tone
arm position with BAD indicators is an "ARC break" needle. It is not a
real floating needle.

    A real floating needle, between 2.0 and 3.0 tone arm position also
carries with it COGNITIONS and VERY GOOD INDICATORS. The pc is
cogniting, cheerful and happy.

    When the tone arm is below 2.0, the chain has not been erased.

    When the tone arm is above 3.0, erasure has not occurred.

    When the tone arm is up at 4.4, the pc has made it more solid and
has not erased the basic on the chain.

    On the second time through, if the TA rises, you know there is an
earlier incident.

    The Dianetic auditor is not concerned with rehabilitation of the
overrun if he sees the tone arm has gone high. In Dianetics it only
means the engram chain is in restimulation and has not been erased.

    When the basic erases, the TA will fall or rise to the area between
2.0 and 3.0 and the needle will F/N, the pc will have cognitions and
very good indicators.

    The sequence is F/N, cognition, VGIs, erasure. The auditor then
stops running that chain. He can reassess and run another chain now.

                END PHENOMENA 235

    COGNITION means a pc origination indicating he has "Come to
realize." It's a "What do you know? I . . ." statement.

    Erasure is almost always preceded by a COGNITION. Cognitions can
also occur while running the chain. But when they occur with a real
floating needle and very good indicators, you know erasure is occurring.
When you see this happening, let the pc cognite. Don't chop his
cognition. Let all the bits and pieces blow or erasure of the picture
will not be complete.

    Despite all this, one still must not overrun and get the TA up. But
in Dianetics an ~erasure~ leaves nothing to get the TA up with!

    ALL auditors must realize that the END PHENOMENA of successful
auditing is not just an F/N but has three more requisites. And an
auditor can chop these off.

    The mark of the real VIRTUOSO in auditing is his skilled handling of
the floating needle.

    It is possible to get a floating needle and very good indicators
while simply spotting or dating an engram.

    This does not often happen. But when it does happen it
~occasionally~ also causes trouble if the F/N is by-passed.

    The criterion is to let the pc have his win.

    A pc who gets

    1. An F/N
    2. A cognition, and
    3. Very Good Indicators
    on an incident or chain has

    A. Keyed it out (still there but not keyed-in) or
    B. Erased it by inspection or
    C. Has erased it by running the chain.

    C is the case in by far the greatest percentage of pcs and sessions.

    B is so rare that you won't find it except on clears or persons who
are nearly clear.

    A (key-out) is rather common.

    The auditor's problem is to tell which it is. Really it isn't much
of a problem.

    Almost all of the time C is the case. One just does standard
Dianetics--list, assessment, R3R, and you even-

                236 BOOK TWO

tually get an erasure of the basic of the chain, with an F/N, VGIs and a
cognition.

    When a key-out occurs, you can get an F/N, GIs and possibly a
cognition BUT THE INCIDENT THE PC WAS RUNNING HAD NO IMPACT
OR INJURY IN IT. You ~can~ by-pass the F/N in Dianetics in this case
and complete the chain. If you just leave it at that no damage is done
BUT THE PC MAY KEY-IN AGAIN EVEN BEFORE HE OR SHE GETS
TO THE EXAMINER. Even the somatic may come back. If so, just finish
the chain. There's no real damage done. But if it WAS an engram
(contained pain and unconsciousness) and it erased and the auditor
got an F/N, VGIs and a cognition and tried to force the pc to go earlier
you can get a very upset pc who has to be sent to a Scientology review.

    When you get the very rare pc who, well advanced, actually blows an
engram by inspection you will know it. Such a pc already audits very
fast--and is Clear or near Clear. The somatic, the lot simply goes. If
you try to push the pc into running it, some sort of firefight* may
occur, a thing to be avoided.

    If judgment of all this seems difficult, there's a safe rule: "Let
the pc have his win."

    And remember that a win consists of:

    1. An F/N

    2. A Cognition, and

    3. VGIs.

    The main liability of pushing a pc past a win is that he may "jump
chains" and begin on another chain with no assessment. This gets him
into trouble.

    If, in A above, you left it as a keyed-out lock, the pc will simply
get the same symptoms again sooner or later.

    You are dealing with an exact activity in standard Dianetics. It has
no "special cases" or "exceptions." The procedure is the procedure and
it is the procedure that gets the wins.

    This matter of key-out or erasure is the only area of the subject
where judgment comes into play. And even that can be shirked by letting
the pc have his or her win.

                END PHENOMENA 237


¤F/N Everything¤


    Whenever an auditor gets a read on an item from rudiments (ARC
breaks, present time problems, missed withholds) or a prepared list IT
MUST BE CARRIED TO AN F/N.

    To fail to do so is to leave the pc with by-passed charge.*

    When a pc has had several reads on various lists which were none of
them carried to F/N, it can occur that he will become upset or depressed
without any other apparent reason. As one has DONE the lists without
F/Ning each item, one now has the mystery of what is wrong.

    The error is reading items from rudiments or prepared lists cleaned
to no read but not carried to F/N.

    When an auditor first tries this he may well think it is impossible.

    Yet it is simplicity itself. If you know bank structure you know it
is necessary to find an earlier item if something does not release. What
has been found as a read on a prepared list ~would~ F/N if it were the
basic lock. So if it doesn't F/N, then there is an earlier (or an
earlier or an earlier) lock which is preventing it from F/Ning.

    So the RULE is:

    NEVER WALK OFF FROM A READING ITEM ON A RUDIMENT
OR A PREPARED REPAIR LIST BEFORE YOU CARRY IT DOWN
(EARLIER SIMILAR) TO AN F/N.

    Example: ARC break reads. Pc says what it is, auditor handles it. If
no F/N, auditor asks for an earlier similar ARC break, gets it, and
handles until he gets an F/N.

    Example: PTP (present time problem) reads. Carry it E/S (earlier
similar) until a PTP F/Ns.

    So there is a much more general rule:

    EVERY ITEM THAT READS MUST F/N.

    In Dianetics you get the F/N when you run E/S secondaries or engrams
to an erasure, F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    In rudiments, every out rud you get a read on is run E/S to F/N.

                238 BOOK TWO

    On a prepared list you take each read to an F/N or E/S to F/N.

    So another rule:

    EVERY MAJOR AND MINOR ACTION MUST BE CARRIED
TO AN F/N.

    There are NO exceptions.

    Any exception leaves by-passed charge on the pc.

    ~Also~, every F/N is indicated at the conclusion of the action when
cognition is obtained.

    You take too soon an F/N (first twitch) you cut the cognition and
leave by-passed charge (a withheld cognition).

    I could take any folder and simply write out the rudiments and
prepared list reading items and then audit the pc and carry each one to
F/N and correct every list so disclosed and wind up with a very shining,
cool calm pc.

    So "Have reading items been left charged?" would be a key question
on a case.

    Using lists or rudiments on high or low TAs that are not meant for
high or low TAs will get you reading items that won't F/N.

    So, another rule:

    NEVER TRY TO FLY RUDIMENTS ON A HIGH OR LOW TA.

    One can assess an L3RD.*

    The most frequent errors in all this are:

    Not taking a read earlier similar but just checking it and leaving
it as "clean."

    Not using "suppress" and "false" on items.

    And of course leaving a pc thinking things are still charged by
failing to indicate the F/N.

    Indicating an F/N before cognition.

    Not going back through the folder to handle rudiments and items that
read but were called "clean" or were simply abandoned.

    A pc audited under tension of poor TRs has a hard time and does not
F/N sometimes, inviting overrun.

    The rules then to happy pcs are:

    GOOD TRs.

    F/N EVERYTHING FOUND ON RUDIMENTS AND LISTS.

                END PHENOMENA 239

    AUDIT WITH TA IN NORMAL RANGE OR REPAIR
IT SO IT ~IS~ IN NORMAL RANGE.


¤Persistent F/N¤


    A FLOATING NEEDLE can ~persist~.

    This fact tells you at once why you cannot do three major actions in
a row in the same ten minutes.

    For example the auditor attains a bona fide full dial F/N. The pc is
still cogniting, still in a big win. The auditor "clears the next
process command," and sees an F/N. He then "clears the ~next~ process
command," and sees an F/N.

    BUT IT WAS THE SAME F/N!

    Result was that processes 2 and 3 WERE NEVER RUN ON THE CASE.

    This is really what is meant by "Quickie Grades."*

    In 1958 we got real releases. You could not kill the F/N for ~days~,
weeks.

    Several processes had this effect. Today's real clear also goes this
way. You couldn't kill the F/N with an axe.

    By running a lot of Scientology communication processes for instance
you can get a real swinging unkillable F/N.

    It not only gets to the examiner, it comes in at the start of the
next day's session!

    Now if in one session you ran all of Level Zero, communication
processes, and went on up to Level One, problems processing, you would
just be ~auditing a persistent F/N~. The pc would get no benefit at all
from Level One. He's still going "Wow" on Level Zero.

    A session that tries to go beyond a big dial wide drifting floating
F/N only distracts the pc from his BIG WIN.

    Any ~big win~ (F/N dial wide, cognition, VGIs), gives you this kind
of persistent F/N.

    You at least have to let it go until tomorrow and let the pc have
his win.

    That is what is meant by letting the pc ~have~ his win. When you get
one of these dial wide F/Ns, cognition, VGIs "WOW," you may as well pack
it up for the day.

                240 BOOK TWO

    In running a Dianetic chain to basic triple flow,* you will
sometimes see in one session a half dial on flow 1; 3/4 of a dial on
flow 2; a full dial on flow 3.

    You will also notice in the same session--long time for first
action, shorter, shorter, shorter for the next three actions.

    Now you have an F/N that anything you try to clear and run will just
F/N WITHOUT AFFECTING THE CASE AT ALL.

    If you audit past that you are wasting your time and processes.

    You have hit an "unkillable F/N" properly called a persistent F/N.
It's persistent at least for that day. Do any more and it's wasted.

    If an auditor has never seen this he had better get his TR-0
bull-bait flat for two hours at one unflunked go and his other TRs in
and drill out his flubs. For that's what's supposed to happen.

    F/Ns on pcs audited up to (for that session) a persistent F/N always
get it to the examiner.

    If you only have a "small F/N" it won't get to the examiner.
However, on some pcs maybe that's good enough. May take him several
sessions, each one getting a final session F/N a bit wider. Then he gets
an F/N that gets to the examiner. After that, well audited on a
continuing basis, the F/N lasts longer and longer.

    One day the pc comes into session with a dial wide floating swinging
F/N and anything you say or do does nothing whatever to disturb that
F/N.

    It's a real release man. It may last weeks, months, years.

    Tell him to come back when he feels he needs some auditing and chalk
up the remaining hours as undelivered.

    If the F/N is truly persistent he will have no objections. If it
isn't, he ~will~ object. So have him come back tomorrow and carry on
whatever you were doing.

    This is not to be confused with a Stage 4 (sweep, stick sweep,
stick) or an ARC broken needle (pc bad indicators while F/Ning).

                END PHENOMENA 241

    This is not to be used to refuse all further auditing to a pc.

    It is to be used to determine when to end a series of major actions
in a session.


¤Drill¤


    Name: Indication of F/N Drill

    Commands: "Do birds fly?" or "Do fish swim?"

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to correctly obnose and handle
end phenomena.

    Position: Student and coach seated facing each other across a table.

    Training Stress: The student and coach do the drill per the below
steps. The coach uses a pencil to indicate F/Ns. The student runs "Do
birds fly?" and the coach mocks up end phenomena for the student to
handle. Flunks are given for premature or late F/N indications, or any
out TRs. The coach gradiently makes this drill more and more difficult
and the student auditor is not passed until he can effortlessly and
flawlessly see a process cycle to complete EP.

    Steps:

    1. Student auditor and coach seated facing each other across a
table.

    2. E-meter with shield, worksheets,* C/S* set up in such a way that
auditor can see pc, pc's hands holding the cans, and the E-meter dial.

    3. Student runs "Do birds fly?"

    4. Excellent TRs 0-4.

    5. Coach shows EP, and has a pencil in one hand to denote an F/N.

    6. Coach simulates a small F/N which is gradually being widened as
the "pc" cognites. (Uses pencil for this.)

    7. Coach talks, looks at student auditor, looks away, looks at
student, etc.

    8. The student obnoses coach until he sees coach has said all; the
needle is floating widely, coach has VGIs, and is in present time, that
is, no longer introverted.

    9. Indicates the F/N by saying as though agreeing with the pc, "Your
needle is floating."

                242 BOOK TWO


¤Get the Preclear Through¤


    Since 1950 we have had an ironbound rule that we didn't leave
preclears in trouble just to end a session.

    For 24 years we have always continued a session that found the
preclear in trouble and I myself have audited a preclear for nine
~additional hours~, all night long, in fact, just to get the preclear
through.

    Newer auditors, not trained in the stern school of running engrams,
must learn this all over again.

    It doesn't matter whether the auditor has had a policy on this or
not. One would think that common decency would be enough as to leave a
preclear in the middle of a secondary or an engram and just cooly end
the session is pretty cruel. Some do it because they are startled or
afraid and "rabbit" (run away by ending the session).

    Auditors who end a process or change it when it has turned on a
heavy somatic are likewise ignorant.

    ~What turns it on will turn it off~.

    This is the oldest rule in auditing.

    Of course people get into secondaries and engrams, go through
misemotion and heavy somatics. This happens because things are running
~out~. To end off a process or a session because of the clock is to
ignore the real purpose of auditing.

    The oldest rules we have are:

    a. Get the preclear through it.

    b. What turns it on will turn it off.

    c. The way out is the way through.

    Auditing at all levels works ~well~ when it is done by the book.

    There is no modern process that will not work when exactly applied.

    In the eyes of ethics* all auditing failures are ethics failures.

    And the first offense an auditor can commit is ceasing to audit when
he is most needed by his preclear.

    Hence it is the first most important consideration of ethics to
prevent such occurences.

    Then we'll make happy preclears, releases and Clears.

                END PHENOMENA 243


¤The Five GAEs (Gross Auditing Errors)¤


    The five gross auditing errors (GAEs) are:

    1. Can't handle and read an E-meter.
    2. Doesn't know and can't apply technical data.
    3. Can't get and keep a preclear in session.
    4. Can't complete an auditing cycle.
    5. Can't complete a repetitive auditing cycle.

    These are the only errors one looks for in straightening up the
auditing of an auditor.

    If you look for other reasons, this is itself a gross goof.


¤Pc Wins¤


    Different types of auditing call for different handlings of end
phenomena.

    End phenomena will also vary depending on what you're running.

    In Dianetics, the EP of a chain is erasure, accompanied by an F/N,
cognition and good indicators. You wouldn't necessarily expect rave
indicators on a pc in the middle of an assist, under emotional or
physical stress until the full assist was completed though. What you
would expect is the chain blown with an F/N. Those two things themselves
are good indicators. The cognition could simply be "the chain blew."

    The data on EPs has been in some instances misapplied in the
direction of overrun. "the pc isn't getting EP on these chains as
there's no cognition, just 'it erased' " is one example. Obviously the
C/S didn't understand the definition of cognition or what an EP is.
Another example is the pc spots what it is and F/Ns and the auditor
carries on, expecting an "EP."

    An advanced preclear is particularly subject to F/N abuse as he can
blow things quite rapidly. If the auditor misses the F/N due to too high
a sensitivity setting or doesn't call it as he's waiting for an "EP,"
overrun occurs. It invalidates the person's ability to as-is and causes
severe upsets.

    This error can also stem from auditor speed. The auditor, used to
auditing lower level pcs, can't keep up with the upper level pc, and
misses his F/Ns or reads.

                244 BOOK TWO

    Thus overruns occur and charged areas are by-passed.

    The remedy of this problem begins with thoroughly clearing all terms
connected with EPs.

    The next action is to get the above data on the subject of EPs and
also related metering technology fully understood. This would be
followed by clay demonstrations* of various EPs of processes and actions
showing the mechanics of the bank and what happens with the pc and
meter.

    TRs and meter drills on spotting F/Ns would follow, including any
needed obnosis drills and correction of meter position so that the
auditor could see the pc, meter and his administration (admin) at a
glance.

    Then, the auditor would be gradiently drilled on handling the pc,
meter and admin at increasing rates of speed including recognizing and
indicating EPs when they occurred. When the auditor could do all of this
smoothly at the high rate of speed of an advanced preclear blowing
things by inspection without fumbling, the last action would be
bullbaited drills like TRs 103 and 104,* on a gradient to a level of
competence whereby the auditor could handle anything that came up at
speed and do so smoothly.

    Then you'd really have an OT auditor. And that's what you'll have to
do to make them.

    Overrun and underrun alike mess up cases.

    Both stem from an auditor inability to recognize and handle
different types of EPs and inexpertness in handling the tools of
auditing at speed.

    Don't overrun pcs and have to repair them.

    Let the pc have his wins.


                CHAPTER 5

                ADMINISTRATION
                A PIECE OF TRUTH


                246 BOOK TWO

[picture#34]


                SESSION FOLDER


                INSIDE FRONT COVER:

                --Case progress sheet
                --Yellow sheet
                --Folder summary
                --OCA graph
                --Program sheets

                FOR EACH SESSION:

                --Auditor's C/S
                --Exam report form
                --Summary report form
                --Auditor's report form
                --Work sheets
                --Correction lists
                --Dn assessment lists
                --Miscellaneous reports

                INSIDE BACK COVER:

                --Dn flow table
                --FES

                CHAPTER 5

                ADMINISTRATION,
                A PIECE OF TRUTH

    Over the years much "know-how" has been developed in auditor
administration.

    This is now standardized throughout the world.

    ADMINISTRATION consists of the formation and handling of the lines
and terminals involved in production.

    AUDITOR ADMINISTRATION would include:

    1. The know-how of writing session reports.

    2. The know-how of folder arrangement.

    3. The know-how of all lines and terminals in the technological area
of his church or mission.

    4. The know-how of other lines and terminals that directly relate to
an auditor getting out his product.

    ALWAYS ADMINISTRATION IS A COMMUNICATION.

    Administration is important because the administration is a piece of
truth.

    Administration of a folder is a responsibility.

    NO AUDITOR HAS ANY BUSINESS BEING IGNORANT
OF ADMINISTRATION.

                248 BOOK TWO

    A folder is provided for each pc. The folder is foolscap size, light
card, usually blue or green in color.

    The pc's name and grade is printed (using a fat felt pen) on the
front of the folder and also along the spine. It's on the spine so you
can pull it out of a stack, if they are lying in piles.

    A rubber band or elastic garter is placed around each folder to
prevent loss of contents and make for easier handling.

    The auditor should not let the folders get too fat as this wrecks
the folder and makes handling difficult.

    When the current folder gets too fat (approximately 2 1/2" or 6 cms)
a new folder is started.

    A new folder is given a folder number (for example - 2) which is
marked boldly on the bottom left hand side of the front cover and along
the spine.

    The old folder which already is numbered (with the folder number 1)
has the dates of the contents marked against the number 1 (on the front
and on the spine).

    Example: 1  25 Mar 71 - 4 Oct 71

    The fact of the change to a new folder is marked in on the folder
summary.

    ~NO~ separate Dianetic folders are kept. All auditing reports of
whatever type of action are simply filed chronologically in the current
folder.


¤Auditor Report Form¤


    An auditor's report form is made out at the end of each session. It
gives an outline of what actions were taken during the session.

    Each report form should be filled in at the top with:

    a. Preclear's name (full name) and grade (very prominent).

    b. Auditor's name (full name).

    c. Date.

    d. Number of intensive hours scheduled (12 1/2, 25, 50, etc.)

    e. Time length of session excluding time for breaks (example: 5 hrs.
15 m). This is "hours in the chair."

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 249

    f. Running total of schedule hours completed to date.

    g. Total TA for session. Important as an indicator of case progress.

    The body of the form is filled in with the following information:

    h. Time started and ended session.

    i. Condition of pc.

    j. TA and sensitivity setting at beginning and end of session.

    k. Rudiments.

    l. What process was run LISTING THE EXACT COMMANDS.

    m. Time, TA and sensitivity at start and end of process.

    n. Whether process is flat or not.

    o. Any F/Ns.

    p. Any rockslam (R/S) items or evil purposes* noted in the right
hand column in red.

    q. TA range.

    At the bottom of the form the trim check result is noted.


¤Work Sheets¤


    The worksheets are the sheets on which the auditor writes a complete
running record of the session from beginning to end, page after page, as
the session goes along.

    A worksheet is always foolscap, 8" x 13" written on both sides and
each page is numbered, back and front, top center of page.

    This is so an auditor can say, "Now the R/S (rock slam) occurred on
page 25," which saves a lot of time. Further it gives the proper number
of pages the session went.

    The worksheet is written in two columns. The auditor writes down the
left-hand column and then down the right-hand column.

    The most important parts of the session to be noted are:

    a. when the TA goes up (on what?)

    b. when the TA goes down (on what?)

    c. when an F/N occurs (on what, any cog?)

    d. when VGIs occur (on what?)

                250 BOOK TWO

    e. when BIs occur (on what?)

    f. how the process ran (what commands are being run?)

    TA and time notations should be made at ~regular~
intervals throughout the session.

    When a process reaches EP, write in the pc's cognition, circle the
F/N and whether or not it was indicated, note the pc's indicators, the
time and TA.

    When running a two-way communication process, it is essential that
all items (terminals, statements, etc.) that read are so marked on the
worksheets--LF, LFBD. All reading items are circled in green after the
session.

    R/S items, ethics situations, service facsimiles* and evil purposes
are marked after the session by ringing them on the worksheet with a red
pen.

    Auditors usually develop a system of shorthanding the session
actions being done, so that session speed is not hampered by admin.

    For example, the repetitive process:

    Recall a change
    Recall a no change
    Recall a failed change

    is run as a bracket (the pc is given the first command, then the
second and then the third and then the first and then the second, etc.)

    The first command can be abbreviated to 1, the second to 2 and the
third to 3.

    The worksheet therefore would look like:

    12.32                2.8
    a  v*                        (Note that each word of the
    failed v                      command is cleared before
    change v                      clearing the command as a
    no change v                   whole.)
    recall v            (F/N)
    1.
        cleared
    2.
        cleared
    3.
        cleared
    12.49                2.6

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 251

    1. Mother went on holiday
    2. at school
    3. didn't sell bike
    1. moved to new house
    2. etc.

    After the session when the commands are written out in full on the
auditor's report form the numbers are again noted so that the Case
Supervisor (C/S) can refer to them.

    ~Whatever system of abbreviation is used by the auditor, the
worksheet must communicate to the C/S what actions were taken during the
session~.

    Worksheets should be written legibly. They are never recopied.

    The auditor should always read over his worksheets before turning in
the folder to the case supervisor and if any words or letters are
missing or cannot be read, they should be put in in block print, in red.

    Example:                              TOTALLY
                                want to get 11111 well

    This can be overdone to the extent that it is almost sarcasm. At the
most it should just run into one or two corrections to a page. If the
auditor is having to correct the page more than that he should learn how
to write rapidly and legibly.

    It is a CRIME to give any session without making an auditor's report
(i.e., actual worksheets taken at that time) or to copy the original
worksheets after the session and submit a copy instead of the real
reports.

    Assist reports that use only contact* or touch assists are written
after the session and sent to the pc folder. The pc is sent to the
examiner after an assist.

    Any time a case supervisor sees long stenographic recounts and notes
in the auditor's worksheets he knows the pc has not got an auditor there
running the session.

    If the auditor is writing down every word the pc says (like a
stenographer) the auditor's TRs will be out and session control will
have passed to the pc. No auditor can write fast enough to take down
everything the pc says and at the same time observe the pc, maintain
session control and keep in his TRs.

                252 BOOK TWO

    On the worksheets you note, in abbreviated form, the technical
actions taken by the auditor, the pc response, time and TA.

    The case supervisor expects a synopsis of the incident or what the
pc says, e.g., in Dianetic auditing the auditor writes down sufficient
data for the case supervisor to see what sort of incident is being run
and if it is on the correct chain.

    One should not go to the other extreme by noting only the auditor's
technical actions as this gives the C/S no means of evaluating the
session.

    The auditor who just sits and lets the pc roll on and on running a
sort of solo session will seldom get results. It is a pretense of
auditing. The auditor ~controls~ the session. The auditor does not
supersede auditing by administration. Never hold the pc up while you
write or the pc will go on to automatic.

    Because he does not see the pc's pictures the auditor in some cases
feels he cannot control them or that they do not really exist.

    The pictures do exist. They respond to the auditor not the pc.
Auditor plus pc is greater than the bank. A stenographer is not an
auditor. An auditor controls the session, has excellent TRs and gets
results.


¤Program¤


    A program by definition is the sequence of actions, session by
session, to be undertaken on a case by the C/S in his directions to the
auditor or auditors auditing the case, and is any series of actions
designed by the C/S to bring about definite results in a pc.

    The program consists of the pc's name, the date, brief case notes of
why the program is being written, and the actions numbered 1, 2, 3,
etc., to be done on the pc to bring about a definite result. The person
writing the program prints his name at the bottom.

    These program sheets are kept paper clipped on the inside of the
front cover, earliest at the bottom to latest on top.

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 253

    The C/S works at completing the program that is topmost. As each
step of the program is completed it is ticked off marked "DONE" with the
date.

    When the whole program is done, it is marked
"PROGRAM DONE (Date)."

    All flubs made during the program are marked in and repaired.

    If while doing a program an extensive repair is undertaken then this
is programmed on a red sheet and then this becomes the topmost program.
The original program should however be marked at the point it was left
and can be resumed when the red one is done.

    Any program retired because of new data about a case should be so
marked with the date.

    The auditor as C/S is responsible for marking off the programs as
above.

    Evil purposes and R/S items are marked on the left-hand edge of the
topmost program in red with the date and worksheet page number.


¤Lists*¤


    A correction list is a list of prepared questions on a sheet which
is used by the auditor for the repair of a particular situation, action
or rundown (R/D).*

    If a correction list is used it must be stapled at the back of the
worksheets.

    The correction list must not be omitted and must be in the session
reports so the C/S can look at the original assessment.

    If a correction list is not completely handled in one session, it is
not stapled as above but left free. It is stapled to the worksheets of
the session in which its handling is completed.

    When using a correction list, the number of the question being
handled is marked on the worksheet. The question is usually written in
after the session in a different color which makes it easy for the C/S
to read through the session.

    A Dianetic assessment list is a list of somatics/items given by a pc
and written down by the auditor with the reads marked that occur on the
meter.

                254 BOOK TWO

    A Dianetic assessment list is always done on a separate sheet.

    The pc's name and the date is put on the top of the sheet.

    The assessment question is noted.

    In the assessment the read is taken when the pc first says the item
and this is written down next to the item. Suppress and invalidate
buttons can be put in on an unreading item if needed. This is noted on
the list.

    If interest is asked of the pc this is noted by the item. (Drug
items are automatically run if they read and interest is not asked.)

    These lists are not stapled to the worksheets but are paper clipped
under the worksheets.

    Items on the list that are R3Red should be circled and marked: "R3R
TRIPLED (Date)."

    Details of the Dianetic assessment list and all items on it run R3R
triple are noted IN FULL on the folder summary.*


¤Summary Report Form¤


    The summary report form is a report used simply as an exact record
of what happened and what was observed during the session.

    A standard form is used and the auditor fills in the appropriate
data.

    It is a tool for increasing an auditor's observation of what goes on
in a session. It teaches auditors how to quickly and concisely analyze
and report on a case.

    The summary report form is filled in as follows:

    1. The date.

    2. The pc's name and the auditor's name, in BLOCK letters.

    3. The process run, the total tone arm action for the session and
the length of the session in hours and minutes.

    4. Goals are not set at the beginning of session but if the pc in
passing mentions any goals he has attained, or more likely gains he has
had in the session, these are noted at this point.

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 255

    5. Aspects of running process--each of the questions 1 to 22 of the
form are answered. Here write down briefly what the preclear was doing
in the session. Do not write opinions with regard to what was happening
or how the preclear was running the process. Here we are interested in
the aspects of the case in relationship to the process or processes
being run.

    6. Ethics report             These are written on the auditor's
    7. Suggest                   C/S sheet.*

    The summary should be done for the session given the preclear for
the day. It is not stapled to the worksheets but is paper clipped on top
of the auditor's report form and beneath the exam report.*

    Two sessions in one day calls for only one summary report with the
TA and data of each session.

    It should be LEGIBLE and READABLE. If an auditor's handwriting is
poor, it should be printed out by the auditor.

    Writing the reports should only take the auditor 15 minutes to do at
the most. Having just audited the preclear you should quite easily fill
the report out.


                SUMMARY REPORT


    The auditor checks each one off and fills in the appropriate data.

                      Date _________
Pc or Pre-OT _________Auditor: _________
Process run: _________
Goals and Gains:      TA:         Time:

Aspects and Gains:
1. How did the pc do in relation to what was run.
2. Effectiveness of process.
3. Any free needles.
4. General needle behavior.
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low) __ Did it come up __
6. Did TA go high __Did it come down __
7. General TA range.
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
9. Any misemotion.

                256 BOOK TWO

10. Preclear appearance.
11. Mannerisms.
12. Mannerism changes.
13. Any change in skin tone.
14. Did color of eyes change__Get brighter__Get dull__
15. Any comm lags.
16. Any cognitions.
17. Any pains turn on __ blown __
18. Any sensations turn on __  blown __
19. Any difficulties.
20. Did you complete C/S instructions.
21. Was pc happy at session end.
22. TA at session end__  Needle at session end__


ETHICS REPORT:


SUGGEST:


¤Exam Report¤


    The exam report is a report made out by the examiner when the pc
goes to exams after session or goes on his own volition.

    The exam report contains the meter details, pc's indicators and
statement.

    The examiner's form is filled out as follows:

~Top Left~:

    If "After Session," put a tick on that line.
    If "Volunteered," put a large tick.
    If "Medical," circle the word "Medical" then write ON (if the pc is
going onto medical lines or OFF on the line as the case may be, or
REPORT if that's what it is.

~Top right~:

    Date is noted, e.g., 4 June 72.
    Time is noted, e.g., 1803 hrs.

    The date and time are important as it prevents altered sequence.

    Pc or Pre-OT* name is printed in.

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 257

    "Last Grade Attained"--this is important from the C/S viewpoint as
it saves him wasted time in searching through the folder looking for it.

    "Grade, Course or Action Being Attested"--whatever it happens to be
on declare. Write DECLARE across the line or if C/S Query, write C/S
QUERY, etc.

    "Pc's statement"--Write down exactly what pc says. Note also what
reads, BDs and where his indicators change and vary, tone in which
statements are made and so forth.

    "TA position and any BD"--note TA position at start of exam and TA
position at end if different.

    "Pc Indicators"--are judged on the following scale:

    VBIs          Very Bad Indicators
    BIs           Bad Indicators
    POOR          Poor Indicators
    OK            Indicators OK
    GIs           Good Indicators
    VGIs          Very Good Indicators
    VVGIs         Very Very Good Indicators
    ^             ^^^^^

    However, any obvious manifestation that would be helpful for the C/S
is noted.

    Examples: BIs pc crying; OK pc frowning; VVGIs pc radiant, skin tone
very pink.                                   ^

    "State of needle"--This is important as different needle
manifestations indicate different things, i.e., R/S, DN (Dirty needle),
RISE, etc.

    Also on F/Ns note the size. Small F/N = 1" to 2" (at sensitivity 8).
Normal F/N = 2" to 3". Wide F/N = 3" to 4". Dial F/N = Floating from one
pin to the other right across the dial. Floating TA = Can't get the
needle on dial, just falls over.

    On this it is sometimes possible to get TA range, e.g., needle comes
on dial at 2.3 and again at 2.5. This would be indicated as Floating TA
= 2.5 - 2.3.

    Size of F/Ns is important. A TA F/N at session end, to a small F/N
at examiner, would indicate something out.

    "F/N indicated to pc"--If F/N write YES, if not leave blank.

    "Signature of Examiner"--The form is signed by the person doing the
exam along this line.

                258 BOOK TWO

    "Sensitivity"--All exams are done with sensitivity 8.

    "Footplates"--If a pc is audited on footplates he or she must be
examined on footplates. This is noted by writing FOOTPLATES above the TA
reading.

    A RED TAB EXAM is where the examiner sees any one of the following
manifestations in a pc after a session:

    1. Nonoptimum TA position (above 3, below 2)

    2. Nonoptimum needle (ARC break needle, stage 4, rockslam, stuck,
still or dirty)

    3. Bad indicators

    4. Nonoptimum statement from pc, critical, hostile, belittling, sad,
etc.

    When a red tab exam occurs the examiner draws a small red flag at
the top left of the exam form and paper clips a RED CARD on the outside
of the front cover of the folder. Red tab folders must not be held onto
by the auditor. They must get handled on a rush priority basis.

    The exam report form is put in the folder on top of the summary
report.

    Volunteered exam report forms are put in the folder at the
appropriate date.


                EXAMINER'S FORM


After session ______   Qual Div ________ (Place)
Volunteered  _______   Date ____________________
Medical ___________    Time ____________________
Pc or Pre-OT name ______________________________
Last grade attained ____________________________
Grade, course or action being attested _________
Pc's statement (Write down exactly what pc says).
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
TA position and any BD _______ Pc indicators ___
State of needle ________________________________
F/N indicated to pc ____________________________
                          ______________________
                          Signature of Examiner

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 259

    Route this form into the folder.

    When illness reported make this out with a carbon under it and route
original to the folder and carbon to the Medical Officer.

    Rush route any later report or sick report to folder to prevent C/S
errors.


¤Folder Error Summary (FES)*¤


(Pc Name)             (Grade)    (Page No.)
______________________________________________________________
Date        Error                Handling Done
______________________________________________________________
22 Oct 71 Drug R/D attested      Objectives run to EP
          with no objective 23   Sep 72
______________________________________________________________
22 Oct 71 Reading item on        All "no interest" items com-
          Drug R/D lists not     pleted. Attested 14 Oct 72.
          run due to "no
          interest."
______________________________________________________________


    One can see at a glance that all the noted errors have been
corrected. A blank space in the right-hand column would indicate that
the error had not yet been fixed.

    This column is filled in by the FESer as he goes along, or by the
C/S as correction is done.

    Any error noted in the correction of the case IS NOTED AS A NEW
ERROR ON THE FES.

    THE FES IS KEPT IN PRESENT TIME BY THE C/S AS ERRORS ARE NOTED.

    In this way the C/S will not lose his place with the pc and the FES
will serve as a help in any further programming.

    It is kept in the inside back cover of the pc's folder.

    An FES should contain those points of error in the auditing of a
case which might cause the pc future difficulty or may require handling.
These would include rundowns left unflat or with missing steps; signs of
unflat grades; absence of any of the parts of EP, noting what was being
run; any chronic problem or difficulty; by-passed EP on any rundown,
illness or ethics trouble after an auditing cycle.

                260 BOOK TWO

    The most important points which can bog a case are well covered.

    An FES is ~not~ the same as an FS (folder summary). The two must not
be combined or confused.

    Opinions have no part in an FES.

    Do not note admin errors in an FES.

    Any error which is not part of the case or its auditing has no place
on the FES.

    R/S (rockslam) statements (what the pc said that R/Sed when he said
it) and ev purps (evil purposes) are noted on separate clearly marked
lists.

    Dianetic chains that did not go to EP, flows not run, are noted on a
full-flow table, not on the FES. The fact that a series of items was run
flow 1 only, or did not EP, ~is~ noted on the FES, to be marked off when
corrected.


¤Folder Summary¤


    The folder summary is written on sheets located on the inside of the
front cover and is an adequate summary of the actions taken on a pc in
consecutive order.

    It is stapled inside the front cover of the pc's current folder and
requires the following data:

    1. ADMIN DETAILS

    Session date, length of time of session and admin time. When a new
folder is started. The total time of a series of auditing sessions. When
OCA taken. When an FES done.

    2. PROCESS DETAILS

    What was run and whether it ran. Mark an EP beside each action
taken, or if it was not taken to EP mark in red UNFLAT, O/R, or
whatever.

    If an item or terminal R/Ses in session, it is noted in red on the
summary report with the page number and circled.

    Similarly an evil purpose arising in a session is marked in red with
the date and circled.

    3. EXAM REPORT

    At the bottom of the process details mark F/N indicating an F/N
occurred at the examiner, or BER (red) if a bad exam report. If TA was
high or low at exam, it can also be noted.

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 261

    4. ATTESTS

    Date and what was attested.

    If pc sent but did NOT this is noted.

    5. MEDICAL DATA

    When pc reports sick. Date and brief statement of illness. Then a
further entry when pc OFF medical lines.

    6. ETHICS DATA

    Any ethics cycles or conditions.

    A BLUE or BLACK pen is used for normal entries. A RED pen is used to
mark any R/Sing item, evil purpose, list or Dianetic item correction,
BER, high or low TA at exams, flubbed attest, medical action or ethics
cycle.

    The auditor is responsible for keeping up this summary after each
session and immediately on receipt of a medical report or pc volunteered
BER. It is a standard part of the auditor's session admin.

    The folder summary sheets are foolscap, divided into four columns.

    When a new pc starts auditing and the first folder is made up, a
copy of the summary form is stapled by two staples at the top to the
inside front cover.

    The form is printed on lightweight paper so that it is not bulky.

    The auditor fills in this form as he progresses with the auditing.

    New sheets are added as needed, earliest at the bottom to most
recent on the top.

    When a new folder is made up ALL summary sheets are removed from the
old folder and advanced to the inside cover of the new folder so that
the completed folder summary of the case is always in the current
folder.


¤The Dianetic Flow Table¤


    The Dianetic flow table is a chronological list of Dianetic items
run, from earliest to latest, with the flows that have been run.

    Here is an example of the way to do it:

                262  BOOK TWO

DATE        ITEM          F1       F2        F3
^^^^        ^^^^          ^^       ^^        ^^
2 Feb 62   Guf Shoulder   Unflat
3 Feb 62   Gow in foot    EP
29 Sep 67  Chow in chump  EP       Unflat   Unflat
                                   Repaired Repaired
                                   to EP    to EP
                                   2 Oct 70 2 Oct 70
                                   (red)    (red)

30 Sep 69  Anger          Unflat
           Peeved         Unflat
4 Oct 70   Feeling        EP        EP       EP
           numb


    Any flow that is later repaired is marked on the table in a
different color with the date.

    The flow table is kept at the back of the folder for reference and
use.


¤The Auditor's C/S Summary¤


    The auditor's C/S is a sheet on which the auditor writes the C/S
instructions for the next session.

    Here is an example:

Pc's Name (red)_________ Date _________________
Auditor's Name (red)____ Class of auditor _____
                          required next session

Session grade (left blank
for the C/S)
Auditor's comment (red)  or think about the case if he
wishes.
        The next C/S
        1. __________________________________ Blue
        2. __________________________________ Blue
        3. __________________________________ Blue
        4. __________________________________ Blue
                          Auditor signature (red)


    The C/S instructions for the session go ~under~ that session. So you
get C/S 4/6/68, auditing session 4/6/68, C/S 5/6/68, auditing session
5/6/68, C/S 7/6/68, etc., etc.

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 263

    Under auditor's comments would be noted any ethics situation that
came to light in the session.


¤Yellow Sheet¤


    A yellow sheet is a sheet detailing each correction list or set of
commands which have been word cleared. It also lists the pc's current
havingness process and the type of
cans the pc uses.

    Example:

    Rudiments  20/8/72  20/8/72 Footplates
    R3R                 20/8/72 "Notice that_______"
    Commands   21/8/72
    L3RD       21/8/72  19/10/72 "Feel that________"

    The sheet is kept up by the auditor.


¤The Examiner¤


    The whole duty of the examiner is to note the TA, and needle
behavior of the pc.

    This duty is done muzzled. No talk or chatter.

    The pc comes in. The examiner smiles, and indicates for the pc to
sit down.

    The examiner hands the pc the cans.

    Notes the TA, needle and looks up at the pc for his statement.

    When the pc says what he wants, the examiner says, "Thank you very
much." ~AND~ indicates to the pc his F/N if he sees one.

    He then indicates with an arm gesture the way out.

    This is the whole drill.

    Very rarely, the pc appears to be disturbed by the silence of the
examiner. They show this by restlessly shifting in the chair, or talking
on and on, or trying to get the examiner to talk. It is permissible for
the examiner to politely acknowledge the pc's origination. This
acknowledgement will make the pc feel comfortable.

    To do or say anything else will invalidate the pc and/or lose the
F/N he or she got in session. You don't, as an examiner, care about
anything except TA, needle behavior

                264 BOOK TWO

and indicating F/N if one is observed, statement, pc indicators. The pc
will tell you what he wants to. You don't have to ask for it.

    The stable datum is always indicate an F/N when you observe one,
whether an examiner or auditor.

    A flubbed session is visible at the examiner.

    Regardless of the worksheet or report, any session ending with bad
indicators, above 3.0 TA or below 2.0 with no F/N or an ARC break
needle, a stage 4 needle, a rockslam, a stuck needle, still or a dirty
needle independent of TA position indicates a nonoptimum session.

    When an examiner sees any one of these following four manifestations
in a pc after a session:

    1. Nonoptimum TA position (above 3, below 2)

    2. Nonoptimum needle (ARC break needle, stage 4, rockslam, stuck,
still or dirty)

    3. Bad indicators

    4. Nonoptimum statement from pc, critical, hostile, belittling, sad,
etc.

    The examiner applies the 24-hour rule.

    This rule is:

    ~ANY GOOFED SESSION MUST BE REPAIRED
WITHIN 24 HOURS~.

    The reason for the rule is that occasionally, particularly when a
person has had a sickly life, physical illness will key-in after a
session goof.

    Such are purely C/S or auditing flubs.

    A C/S flub consists of gross violations of case programming.

    Auditing flubs consist of corny things like running a rudiment (rud)
but no F/N, failure to flatten a chain, bad TRs, auditing over out ruds,
chopping the pc before full end phenomena is attained.

    Evaluation or even chatter after the session can upset a pc that
ended session on F/N VGIs.

    IN ALL CASES as per 1 to 4 above, the EXAMINER paper clips a RED
CARD on the outside of the FRONT COVER OF THE FOLDER and marks
on it THE DATE AND HOUR of the examination as well as places the EXAM

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 265

REPORT in the folder. He then logs it in his log in RED BALLPOINT.

    The EXAMINER must see that the C/S receives this folder as soon as
possible.

    The C/S gives total priority to C/Sing it and it is given priority
in auditing that C/S.

    The pc may even be asked to wait if it can be done in the next hour
or two.

    THE FASTER THE FLUBBED SESSION IS REPAIRED
THE EASIER IT IS TO REPAIR.

    Sessions which are left unrepaired for more than 24 hours
occasionally find the pc physically ill. If repaired quickly or at least
within 24 hours, no physical reaction results.

    The illness will be a key-in of illnesses the pc often had before
any auditing. All the flubbed auditing does is key it in, it itself
makes no one ill.

    If you check folders of ill pcs you will find usually a long period
of no auditing or a flubbed session a few days before the onset of the
illness.

    Pcs who have not been properly programmed but have been audited on
random this or that are the most likely to become ill.


¤Handwriting Drill¤


    Purpose: To train the student auditor in handwriting so that he can
write legibly and quickly in session.

    Position: Student auditor seated at a table. Coach seated opposite
him.

    Commands; "Do birds fly?" or "Do fish swim?"

    Training Stress: This drill is to increase the speed and legibility
of an auditor's handwriting.

    Steps:

    1. The coach gives a "Start" and the student auditor says, "Do birds
fly?" or "Do fish swim?"

    2. The coach answers the questions and talks about the rate of a
slow "pc."

    3. The student auditor keeps adequate session admin.

                266 BOOK TWO

    4. When the student auditor can easily keep up with the coach and
maintain good session control, the coach increases his speed of talking
until the student can keep adequate session admin even with a very fast
pc.

    5. Flunks are given for out TRs, illegible handwriting, or not
getting important data written down.

    6. The drill is passed when the student auditor can write quickly
and legibly even with a very fast pc.


¤Oxford Capacity Analysis (OCA) Graph*¤


    The OCA graph is a specially prepared graph which plots 10 traits of
a pc's personality from a personality test taken by the pc.

    Several OCA tests can be taken by a pc during a series of
intensives. Usually one is taken before an intensive to give the C/S
information as to ~what~ is to be audited, and one is taken after a big
win, at the end of a rundown or at the completion of a grade, as an
indication of what has been achieved. This can however be overdone by
too frequent use.

    The results of the OCA (and an IQ test) are entered on an OCA graph.

    A series of OCAs are drawn on the ~same~ graph to give an indication
of the change that has occurred.

    Each graph is drawn in a different color (red, blue, black, green)
or in a different fashion (bold line, normal line, broken line, dotted
line) so that each line of the graph can be distinguished. On the top of
the graph a key is drawn that gives the date when each test was done.
The month is written in letters so no confusion on numbers occurs.

    The graph is kept paper clipped on the inside cover of the folder
(on top of the F/S and below the programs), so it can be taken out and
the next OCA drawn in.

    The answer sheet that the pc fills in is placed with the worksheets
of that date, after the graph is drawn.

    An amazing number of auditors in the field do not use one of the
most important mechanical tools for gauging the progress of preclears
and students, the American Personality Analysis or the Oxford Capacity
Analysis. Your pre-

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 267

[picture#35]


                268 BOOK TWO

clears deserve to be treated as professionally as possible and to have
something which they can set as a standard of progress for themselves.
This is one of the tests used in determining whether a person is
progressing or not.

    More important, however, is the use of this test by the auditor to
judge how he is doing in his processing or training. Certain drops in
the graph indicate certain definite wrongs, which can be corrected by
the auditor as the preclear continues his processing.

    Understand to start with that the graph of a preclear should always
rise after processing. Never attempt to excuse a dropped graph or a
graph with many lowered traits. If this occurred you did something
wrong. The preclear may be better for his processing, yes; but you did
not better him as much as you could have done. You did something wrong.
In knowing what you have done wrong, you can improve your auditing skill
and not make the same mistake again.

    The American Personality Analysis or the Oxford Capacity Analysis
should always be given before processing or training has begun and after
that processing or training has been completed. In the case of
preclears, they should, if taking several weeks of processing, be tested
at the end of every twenty-five hours.

    "Bit and piece" processing is never too successful. You're the one
who is to help the preclear, so start this help off right; make him
comply by having the number of hours necessary to produce results with
the processing you are giving him. Also, by doing this, you will not
create auditing failures for yourself.

    Now as to the graph, the first most important point is what has
happened when the whole graph line or a majority of traits on the graph
drops. This has been caused simply by ARC breaks with the auditor not
being cleared away.

    Now if the graph does not change very much and the line follows to a
great extent the line of the previous graph, you can be sure that the
preclear had a present time problem (PTP) which was not touched by the
auditor. It has been stated time and again that one cannot audit over
the top of a PTP. An auditor can slip up on this one by not

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 269

checking for the existence of a problem carefully enough with the
E-meter, by not looking closely into whether or not the preclear is
withholding communication, and by not being in good communication with
the preclear. I am reminded of a preclear who was audited and audited
with very little change. Only a short time ago was it discovered that
the preclear's problem was that he had epilepsy which he was controlling
with drugs and of which he was too ashamed to tell the auditor. Pretty
wow! So you be sure to watch this with your preclears.

    A drop in trait H, "Correct Estimation, Appreciation" on the
American Personality Analysis, and "Logical Reasoning, Appreciation" on
the Oxford Capacity Analysis, tells the auditor that the preclear
suffered a loss of havingness. If a person cannot have something, he is
critical of it.

    A preclear actually gives the auditor enough outward physical
evidence of the fact that he is suffering a loss of havingness, so that
an auditor should never really miss on this one, but still auditors do.
A preclear who changes position frequently, fidgets with the E-meter
cans, looks tired and enervated, has a lowered level of havingness. He
becomes more critical, too.

    Rough auditing on the part of the auditor can reduce havingness for
the preclear. Lack of proper comm bridges, sudden communications from
the auditor, improperly ending an auditing session, and so on, can also
reduce your preclear's havingness, so try to do as smooth a job as
possible. Be sure to run a havingness process (included in a later
chapter) to handle this reduction.

    A drop in trait G, which is "Being Cause, Objective" on the American
Personality Analysis and "Responsibility" on the Oxford Capacity
Analysis, is simply auditor evaluation. The auditor by evaluating for
the preclear had made the preclear less cause, less responsible for
himself and his environment. This simply is not done or should not be
done in an auditing session. All auditors should have E-meters as this
is the only means of ascertaining what should be run. If you don't have
an E-meter, run Control, Communication, Havingness processes (CCHs).

                270 BOOK TWO

    If you find yourself just having to "explain" things to your
preclear, watch it. This is evaluation creeping into your session. If
you are tempted to go into a song and dance when your preclear asks you
a question about the session or process, remember your TR on handling
originations, and carry on. Don't evaluate and you will help your
preclear to be more at cause over what is wrong with him.

    Now to explain what has occurred when your preclear has a drop in
trait A. A is the trait which tells us how orientated or how stable the
preclear is, and this is raised when the auditor thoroughly makes
himself "there" as an auditor for the preclear. By "there" is meant that
the preclear knows that the auditor can handle and confront him, his
bank, his body, and the environment; in other words, the auditor is good
on TR-0 and is in control of the session. When this trait drops, you can
say the reverse has happened, definitely.

    There are many things that an auditor can do to lower this trait.
One is to ask the preclear where he would like to sit down for the
session. Another one is to lounge in the chair or to put his feet up on
a table, to be unable to look at the preclear. When this happens you
just find someone and get them to do TR-0 with you until you are once
more "there" as an auditor.

    In running preclears who are low on trait A to start out with, this
is the primary point to watch in low profiles. From the lowness of this
trait, you can tell whether or not it will be necessary for you to run
the CCHs. If low, you will have to run them. In particular are CCH-3 and
CCH-4 designed to assist the preclear find the auditor.

    A drop in trait J on the profile indicates that you have lowered the
preclear's level of communication. This is done by double
acknowledgement on the part of the auditor. The preclear, when this
happens, feels that the auditor is just cutting him off before he has
had a chance to complete a cycle of action on the auditing question or
command. He computes that the auditor is not interested and has little
affinity for him as a preclear.

                ADMINISTRATION, A PIECE OF TRUTH 271

    With trait I, "Empathy" on the American Personality Analysis, and
"Appreciation" on the Oxford Capacity Analysis, you have reality as the
factor with which you are dealing. When this drops, your preclear has a
lowered reality level. When this decreases you are either running him on
processes too high for his level of case or you are running a process or
terminal on which he has no reality whatsoever.

    When a preclear is no longer interested and talking about his case,
you not only know that he is out of session, but you also know that you
are no longer reaching him on his reality level; therefore, you can use
this as a gauge to know whether your preclear is experiencing a
lessening of reality. Also, the position of the trait on the profile can
tell you whether or not you are dealing with a dub-in case or not. If an
incident was seen and this trait drops, you can pretty well tell that
the incident run was just a nice, unreal substitute for the real
incident.

    Now that you have this material, I hope that you will have better
reality on the use of the American Personality Analysis or the Oxford
Capacity Analysis, and that you will use it to help your preclears
better and to assist yourself as an auditor.


                BOOK THREE


                CHAPTER 1

                DIANETIC AUDITING
                AND SOCIETY

    Dianetics has probably got connected with it more history per square
inch than any other activity that's ever occurred on this planet. It hit
like a battering ram and completely disorganized all lines in all
directions. The planet has never really recovered from the impact.

    Dianetics is the entrance point to what the mind is all about.

    The world of mental healing as regards spiritually caused ills is
all wrapped up in Dianetics. And the refinement and smooth-out you now
have in Dianetics really ties up the package. But at this moment Man is
still pretending he knows something about the mind. He is playing about
with shooting people in their gluteus maximi hoping that they will
suddenly cease to be schizoparanoid or something. They haven't even got
classifications that mean anything.

    I ask psychiatrists questions and they always talk to me very
respectfully. They're very nice and feed me tea, which

                276 BOOK THREE

I'm careful to not drink. They talk to me and show me all their records.
But it throws them for a complete loop. The secret is they know that
what we do works. It is not a mystery to them. Their backflash against
Dianetics or Scientology is because they think of it as a rival; if it
got ahead, everybody would get well and where would they be?

    An American university student went amok and got up in the tower of
the University of Texas and slaughtered a lot of people with rifles.
Somebody had tried to find his aberrations this lifetime. In fact, he
had just been to see a psychiatrist to whom he had confessed his
impulses toward such crimes. When the fellow didn't turn up for his next
appointment, the psychiatrist never much bothered about it. And then the
student went out and killed about fourteen people.

    It is interesting, if you read carefully into such cases, to find
that the person had "just been to see a psychiatrist." A movie star
commits suicide--she had just been to see a psychiatrist. And that
university student had just been to see a psychiatrist. I don't like
these statistics that go 100 per cent.

    These people don't have any goal of helping the human race. And the
psychiatrist who is seen just before the accident or catastrophe is not
there to help anybody or even prevent a disaster. You would be
interested to have a discussion with such a person because he wouldn't
make any sense to you. You know why you're processing people, but he
doesn't give you the same answers.

    These people do not understand what we're doing because they don't
have the same goals. If one wants to help somebody, he does something
effective. But supposing a person didn't want to help anybody? And
supposing also he had no mission of bringing law and order, and
supposing he didn't want to help the society either? You'd wonder why he
was in business. The difference is, basically, goals. There is no doubt
in the mind of the psychiatrist that Dianetics works. And that is what m
akes it so fearsome.

    However, these are not all bad boys. They are wrapped up into some
kind of a routine which they can't get out of.

    For instance, in many states and areas it's against the law ~not~ to
electric shock people. And there is a law on

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 277

experimental surgery that one has to weigh the value of the individual
against the good that the research will do. This is called "equitable
practice," and it makes it ethical to butcher somebody up if you can
resolve it in your own mind that this will benefit a lot of other
people. Shifty think. Many of these psychiatrists are suppressive
persons,* and those that aren't soon become very PTS.* Operating in an
atmosphere of that particular character is quite--not to make any
pun--maddening.

    New philosophies come out at the rate of a thousand or two per
annum. And there must be new schools of psychology and psychiatry
invented every two or three months. No one ever hears anything of them.
Where do they go? They don't go anyplace. But we are still going forward
and growing. To suppressives, that's what's frightening about us: we're
making headway.

    If we stopped helping people, maybe the psychiatrists would be
satisfied. If we started to adopt a goal line similar to that of
medicine or psychiatry and fitted ourselves into their goal lines and
perverted the technology so that it would act in that direction, we
would be very acceptable. My philosophy about all of them is very
quickly stated: to hell with them. I rarely go around zoos wondering if
I'm acceptable to the monkeys in the cage.

    How did medicine spin in? How did psychiatry spin in? How did the
old alienists go by the boards? You see, the field of mental healing is
one field where every decade or so you get a change of title. In an
unsuccessful activity such title changes occur frequently. In the
twenties, psychiatrists were known as alienists. If you go back down the
line you'll find out that since about 1850, they've been known as about
a dozen different things, but it isn't that the schools are going down:
the whole profession is going down. And that's because it is giving all
of its time and effort to an existing down statistic -- the insane. And
it becomes very enturbulated. *

    To engage upon such an activity, we would have to be ourselves based
so strongly, our feet would have to be so solidly on the ground, our
economic framework would have to be so fantastically good, and our
success in what we are

                278 BOOK THREE

doing would have to be so great that we could afford to take on an extra
activity and carry on. That's a very odd frame of reference for this
sort of thing. Envision standing on a rather slippery log across a
roaring brook with leather shoes on and trying to reach over to pick up
a big heavy stone out of that running water. What do you think would
happen to you? But if you were firmly planted on the bank and you had
rubber boots, and you were of such stature and strength that if you were
hit with a 16-inch shell it would dent itself, you could pick up that
great big stone with the greatest of ease.

    Ours is an activity going along in a somewhat barbaric environment.
The West is a scientific barbarism. It is really not a civilization, not
yet. But it is very scientific. And a man has to be pretty civilized and
pretty understanding, and he has to know his business pretty shockingly
well to be trusted with very much power. The society is unbalanced at
this time to the degree that it possesses scientific power without the
gentler graces. It has power without humanity and to that extent is not
a civilization.

    Any army in the West can whistle up an unlimited number of machine
guns, tear gas bombs, and all sorts of materials with which to injure,
wreck and ruin people. But do you know that they could not at this time
whip up a single technology to make somebody who was crying laugh, or
even to make somebody who was laughing cry? They are attempting to alter
human behavior with ~forte main~. "If you don't change and act better I
am going to hit you on the head with a sledge hammer." That is the
approach of this civilization.

    Into a scene like that it is very dicey to put technology broadly in
the road of those who are already accustomed to the abuse of technology.
You could do it successfully only if the technology itself advanced
state of case with such rapidity that it completely overcame any impulse
to abuse it.

    I have taught psychiatrists how to find and run an engram. One came
to me absolutely bubbling over with enthusiasm. "This is marvelous. You
really have something

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 279

in Dianetics. I've been trying for years with one of my paranoid
schizophrenics to find the incident that was responsible for his
insanity, and you've just handed it to me on a silver platter!"

    And I said, "Well, what was the incident?"

    "His father hadn't changed his diapers."

    "Good," I said. "And after you found this, what did you do?"

    "It was quite remarkable," he said. "He all of a sudden conceived
that he was lying there in the crib with dirty diapers and he was
starting to tell me something about being angry with his father at that
point. And that was just what I'd been looking for. So I was able to
tell him at that moment that that explained all of his symptoms. I
explained it all to him."

    "Well," I said, "is the guy sane?"

    "What's that got to do with it?"

    That was the first time I ever reeled on the subject. This person
was a sort of a guinea pig that he kept in a padded cell. And he used
Dianetics to find a point in this guinea pig that he had been looking
for for some time because he knew it was there. But he then reverted to
psychoanalytic evaluation techniques which put the patient right back in
the padded cell again.

    Every now and then I get an impulse to summon up a whole bunch of
psychiatrists and give them a course. Then I remember things like this
and abandon that notion forthwith.

    For instance, I had an argument with a medical doctor on the subject
of the E-meter. He thought it worked because the auditor had a strong
personality, and explained the whole thing to me on that basis. But the
use of the electrogalvanometer in the detection of emotional response
has been known for a hundred years, and he should have known this in his
own technology. But he selected out the whole subject of the
electrogalvanometer and blamed it on Scientology. Then he claimed that
the E-meter said what the auditor wanted it to say. That was as much
technical insight as he was capable of, even though he was the most
advanced and liberal physician in a large district.

                280 BOOK THREE

    In view of such attitudes, we won't push in that direction yet. We
won't stand on the slippery log halfway across this stream and try to
pull up any great big boulders like the totality of the health level of
the human race, or the whole insane population of the West.

    But now you've got your hands on a refined, smoothed out, highly
experienced Dianetics. Read this book and study the technical data hard.
Read ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~ and follow the
directions in tapes, technical bulletins, and the present text, and
you'll have a very smooth running proposition.

    You have an E-meter which tells you whether the fellow is running.
It didn't exist in 1950. You have technical materials on the composition
of the mind which are senior to those we had in 1950.

    We're advancing the most powerful psychosomatic technology on the
planet into a planetary area which never dreamed of anything that
advanced.

    A fellow just got through having an automobile accident, and you
want to straighten him out. Run the engram. Or a girl has just lost her
husband. Run the moment of loss as a secondary and spill it.

    To use a Freudian expression, "traumatic shock" is contained in a
broken leg. As long as that mental reaction to the experience of
breaking the leg remains intact, healing of the leg will be a normal six
weeks. But if you ran the incident of breaking the leg, you would reduce
the time of healing from six weeks to two weeks. This is one of the
wildest bafflers that medical doctors have ever run into with Dianetics.

    If a person falls and hits his head on the walk, a Dianetic touch
assist can be done on him. Then run the engram.

    Too much overwhelm on a case can result in an illness which must be
addressed Dianetically by running out the somatics connected with the
illness.

    I've seen some spectacular things happen. I've seen a goiter the
size of a baseball visibly shrink and disappear in the space of one-half
hour right after an engram was run.

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 281

    I've seen several bad conditions of the body disappear, mental
conditions alter, the insane turn sane. The last is one of the easier
tricks. You'd be surprised how many insane can run engrams. A person
considered to be totally helpless might just be PTS. You would be
interested how well they do run incidents.

    Being sane or insane has nothing whatsoever to do with state of
case. That sounds absolutely outrageous, but it is just a manifestation
or a behavior pattern. It wasn't whether the person could be audited
easily or with difficulty that determined whether he was sane or insane.
Ease of auditing has nothing to do with his state of case. The insane
very often audit like a baby buggy.

    The funny thing is that an insane person usually wants to run the
incident the psychiatrist has kept telling him was a delusion or a
hallucination. The psychiatrist has said it wasn't true and wouldn't
even listen, creating an ARC break. The incident by this stage is
possibly a bit delusory as the basic incident has become all messed up
with so much suppression. But he kind of wants to run that. He sometimes
will be very thoughtful about telling you anything about it but you
eventually can get it rolling.

    The alarming thing I found is that a very large population in
institutions has been put there by families for reasons other than
insanity. Families can be a bit suppressive in some cases to the point
of putting away someone who is not insane. That is the main danger of
having an institution and of having civil rights suspended because of a
condemnation of insanity. You mustn't suspend civil rights simply
because somebody is declared insane. He hasn't ceased to be a member of
the human race.

    Despite remonstrances not to, one auditor tried to handle an insane
person whose family was paying the auditor a fortune to do something for
him. In this case--and in others--the auditor was totally tied up for
months on end doing nothing but holding somebody's hot hand and trying
to do something about it. The investment of effort in such a case is
high. But the auditor, even when he has brought the guy out of the
woods, never gets otherwise than a kick in

                282 BOOK THREE

the teeth. As you can see from my case histories on this sort of thing,
it does not pay to reward the down-statistic.

    There are five men walking down the street. One of them is as mad as
the hatter but he has a brother willing to pay an auditor ten thousand
pounds an hour to cure him. If the other four fellows didn't have any
money at all, I can assure you that you would be much further ahead to
audit any of these four. This is from pure unadulterated experience.

    I've had lots of discussions with doctors on their patients in
institutions. I'm not quite as ill-informed on this subject as a
psychiatrist. If you or I went out and shot somebody dead, they'd throw
us into the electric chair and we would be dispensed with with great
rapidity. But not an insane person. He can go out and shoot fifteen
people and if he doesn't get killed in the process he goes into court
and his friend the psychiatrist says, "The man is insane." So he is put
in a nice institution where he can sit for the rest of his life. Doctors
take care of him. Social workers work on him. Appropriations of about
eighteen thousand dollars are spent on him. And in some of these cases
nobody ever bothers to follow through and in as little as three days the
person can be right back on the street, even after having been sent to
the institution as insane, for murder. They just give him electric shock
and put him out in the street. Sometimes not even electric shock is
given. Psychiatrists look him over, decide he isn't dangerous and let
him out.

    Or a man beats up three cops and busts up a bar. In court, he is
pronounced insane and shipped to the institution for two or three days.
Then the doctors let him out, where he will possibly repeat the
performance. The police give up arresting him. Why bother? How can they
keep law and order when a person can get away with anything if he's
insane? That's a pretty steep reward for a down-statistic.

    Keep doing that for very long and unpleasant things start happening
in a society. Every time the U.S. police try to stop a riot, somebody in
Washington will be very critical of the police handling of the situation
but won't say very much about the ringleaders. Bills are passed in
Congress

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 283

that reward rioters. The rioter is not supporting the country nor is he
keeping law and order by looting stores and tearing everything to
pieces. So let's give him more social workers, more dole? Let's give him
more votes, more rights? That's rewarding the down-statistic.

    How about all the citizens around who weren't in riots and who
weren't looting stores? They have to pay the tax that rewards the guy
who did. That's penalizing the up-statistic.

    A suppressive society always penalizes the up-statistic and rewards
the down-statistic. In such a society you could make yourself agreeable
by awarding the down-statistic of illness and insanity, and penalizing
the up-statistic. For example, by taking a fellow who is extremely
bright, proclaiming that geniuses are liabilities because they always go
to pieces, and tossing him in an institution. If we went along with a
total agreement like this, society would love us. I don't care to be
loved in that framework.

    When you look at behavior outside institutions and behavior inside
you begin to wonder if the psychiatrist does know his job. The rising
statistic of the number of insane in Western countries is so fantastic
that it could only be a very suppressive society or government that
would give psychiatry another penny appropriation. Psychiatry has failed
in a big way.

    We are swimming against the stream. But by swimming with the stream,
we'd go over Niagara Falls with no barrel.

    But going up against a down-statistic activity (like psychiatry)
that is already being rewarded tends to bring you into the picture as
being rewarded because you make down-statistics. And the next thing you
know, everything you're trying to do is corroded. So my solution to the
whole thing is to leave it alone. Let them go spin, practitioner and
practiced-on alike, and do what you can. We are on a winning line.
Making the able more able might not be as profitable financially as it
could be made but it is much sounder on a basis of personal and
organizational repute and growth.

                284 BOOK THREE

    Now in some peculiar way we are able to hold certain constants: a
constant of ethical conduct, a constant of doing the best we can to help
other people. Our impulses in this direction are very good. And if we
were just holding constants we would win, as the rest of the society is
going by the boards. You didn't see riots like this twenty years ago in
the United States. Forty years ago they weren't handling psychiatry the
way they're handling it today. You didn't see millions of dollars being
appropriated to the care and reward of a bunch of nuts.

    Fred Allen, the old American comedian, once said that the quality of
humor had sunk to such a low ebb as to leave him on a pinnacle. If we
kept on holding our constants, true to our own ideals, with the society
decaying around us we would remain pretty well where we were. That would
leave us on a pinnacle and society would eventually turn to us.

    However, that is not what we are doing. Although our motives are
quite constant, our state of case or size of the movement is not. That
is growing! And everyone connected with the movement is getting more
able individually. This of course presents a picture of us remaining not
on a constant plateau in a sinking society, but rather on a rising
plateau in a sinking society. Now where do you think that's going to
leave us as far as control and influence in the society is concerned.?

    Now what you do with what you know, is determined by the framework
of the society in which you are working. It's not always the same
solution. You don't always get the same answer because there are
different environments, different surroundings into which you can use
what you know. Imagine a violinist from the Philharmonic Orchestra going
out to a lumber camp and playing for the lumberjacks. Now I am sure that
he would amuse the lumberjacks but if he did not monitor his action or
exhibition of skill against the environment in which he was performing
he would probably be quite unpopular and might even become damaged.

    It is very well to have a constant of action, and we can really
congratulate anyone who is sufficiently powerful to always act
constantly and apply the same solution to all

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 285

situations. But when you have still got one foot in the human race and
you're still human yourself, you won't find that this is too easy to do.
You're not strong enough yet. So you monitor your application and use of
technology against the environment in which you find yourself.

    When you try to disseminate Dianetics and Scientology, you're really
up against a problem not of how you suffer all the slings and arrows but
of how you tailor-make what you know to fit the group to whom you are
speaking. It isn't false to do that. You have the whole vast panorama of
existence: the mind, the spirit, religion. You've got the entirety of
life as a bin out of which you can pull fragments of the subject to
offer people.

    You are actually trying to tell him what he already knows down deep,
although it is all covered by a tremendous amount of false information.
But in every case there is an entrance point. And there being an
entrance point, all you have to find is that point of a gradient of what
you know about existence which he does not have to protest and which he
does not have to argue with in order to preserve "his own integrity."

    At what point can we enter? I have talked by the hour to medical
doctors about Dianetics and Scientology. I don't have to talk long until
they're sitting there with their jaws dropped, very appreciative of the
whole thing. And then they fit it into their framework and run with the
ball. If you can't get the other guy to contribute somewhat to the
conversation it ceases to be an agreement.

    So if you want to disseminate broadly in all directions, you would
simply estimate the persons or groups to whom you are seeking to speak.
Then having estimated you would give them something with which they
could agree without violating their own mores, without violating their
own fixed ideals.

    Also never give someone something which is false just to agree,
because your force and impact consists of the fact that you speak truth.

    You have to estimate your audience very accurately. And if you do
that right, short of your having confronted a

                286 BOOK THREE

suppressive person, the proper response is, "Gee, where has this been
all my life?" It hasn't anything to do with their religious fixations or
convictions. It hasn't anything to do with their social mores.

    Now the Road to Truth can never be traveled partially. So if you do
not provide some way in which to let them go on traveling on the road
you can also get into trouble. No matter how tiny the crack in the door,
there must be some way for them to go further. Don't just leave them
totally parked. It's tantamount to a sin to introduce somebody to the
fact that there is a certain technology which is known, about
immortality and the Road to Truth and that there are certain books and
courses about this, and not tell him the address of where this is
taught. That way you sentence somebody to no auditing.

    But an estimation of whom you are trying to speak to and where they
sit on the tone scale, what problems they have and what use they can
have for the data comes into the whole field of dissemination.

    Dianetics has a big role in dissemination. To get together a group
of people, teach them all about the fundamentals of the mind and get
them to run secondaries and engrams would be highly effective. If you
get very smart with Dianetics it is just about the most interesting
dissemination technology you ever had anything to do with.

    You can teach people Dianetics technology. They might not stay
around if you simply talked to them about their souls, whereas you would
find them getting very enthusiastic indeed if you taught them how to run
engrams and secondaries.

    In Dianetics you are handling the most powerful dissemination tool
there is. Your knowledge of the anatomy of the engrams and secondaries
of the mind puts into your hands terrific absorbing interest on the part
of any human being you talk to.

    The mind is probably the least understood, the most mysterious
object that anybody ever heard of. You would have to know that an
individual was quite capable of making pictures, of creating mass,
energy, space and time before you could understand what the mind was.
That would

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 287

require that you understood there was such a thing as an individual. An
individual isn't something walking around in a frock coat or with
pince-nez glasses. An individual is a static.* A static is something
that's motionless. And there is no reason to explain a thetan or say
where it came from, because it didn't come from any place. It ~is~.

    A thetan is a life unit capable of many things but is most familiar
to one and all as "you."

    If you don't believe you are a thetan, here is a little exercise:
Look around you. What do you see? You see the physical universe. And
look at another person. You see a body. Then make a picture of a cat.
That picture is a synthetic and a creation at the moment you're making
it up. That is the mind. But what's looking at that cat? You are.

    That you are mocking up that thing called the mind was the great
discovery of Scientology. But what is the source of this thing?

    In college I studied atomic molecular phenomena. It should have been
left there as a toy subject and not gone any further, because out of
that subject came the atomic bomb. It was originally called atomic
molecular phenomena; highly specialized, it is now called nuclear
physics. Today, people get degrees in nuclear physics and go out with
aplomb to blow human beings to pieces because politicians don't know how
to handle governments.

    But the whole subject of the human mind was so unknown, so bedazzled
and mucked about, people hardly even knew there was a mind. Mary Baker
Eddy said, "All is mind, infinite mind." She was using "mind" in some
other connotation. She thought the universe was a big think. There is a
lot to think, but there is also us.

    This thing called the "engram" came from a theory I
developed at George Washington University. It's an interesting theory
because Man had no explanation for the storage of thought. This is
typical scientific think: if memory is contained in a molecule, there
are 10 to the 21st power binary digits of molecules in the brain in the
neuron system, some phenomenal figure. But if there were a hundred holes
in each one of these molecules, and one memory in each hole, then by
calculation of the number of things observed

                288 BOOK THREE

and remembered, and by actual inspection of Man's memory, Man had enough
memory storage to last him three months! And although this may not be
true of psychologists, psychiatrists and many professors, there are
those who can remember back further than three months.

    I wrote this up as proof that this was not how Man remembered. But a
few years later, about 1936, this was issued in Vienna as the way Man
remembered. Man is so scarce on data that he will even buy ways people
have proved Man doesn't remember in order to explain the mind and
memory.

    There is a mirror theory that is even more ridiculous, whereby one
perceives by having a mirror which reflects the perceptions and
concentrates them. That was the explanation of the psychological school
of thought in the fifties. Don't ask what looks at the mirror because
they'll tell you another mirror. They never followed the thought all the
way through. Something had to look at the mirror.

    Similarly they talk about the wonders of computers. Some of my
friends use Eniacs and Univacs and Mukluks or whatever these things are
called these days, and they are doing this gorgeous stunt of praising
the computer and saying how much better it is than a human being. I
shatter their comparisons by saying, "Who asks the computer questions?"
And they say, "Well, of course we do, because we're so stupid." And I
say, "Who, then, does it answer questions for?" That stops them. They
have the idea that a computer answers questions for other computers,
then asks questions for other computers. But the truth is there is
always someone there feeding it cards and feeding it questions. You'll
also see somebody come over and take out a long tape and then read it.
It didn't mean a thing until somebody read it.

    So Man's approach to this was so childish as to be silly. And what
data he had about the mind he couldn't even think about. The
psychiatrist thinks the mind is the brain; that's why he keeps sawing up
brains and drilling holes in them. He thinks he's getting something. You
can't drill a hole in a mind; it's not possible.

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 289

    The mind, then, is being asked to think about something called the
mind. The big electronic computers are not able to think about computers
or to design themselves. But fortunately the mind doesn't have to
understand the mind because there is somebody there to understand it.

    We also have to understand the idea of what is reality. This really
baffles people because this is the biggest philosophic conundrum of the
ages: What is reality? People tell you to face reality. But you could
say with a philosophic quip, "I'll be glad to face it if you'll explain
it." That would stop them cold because they can't explain reality.

    Reality totally lacks philosophic definitions. We get into such
wierdities as: if the tree fell in the forest and there was nobody there
to hear it fall, then would it have made a sound? Those philosophers
couldn't all have been serious. If you want to have a ball, read some of
these old-timers' works of three or four centuries ago and get their
definitions for some of these commodities you have to know about in
order to be free. Reality is one of them.

    Reality is "what is." People who can't see very much don't have much
reality. You can experience reality so easily that I wonder a little bit
at anybody having trouble with it. You can stamp and there it is, it's
real.

    Someone says, "But a lot of people have an awful lot of delusions."
And you say, "Okay, what's a delusion?" That would probably stop them.
We could answer it easily. A delusion is what one person thinks is but
others don't necessarily.

    I'd hate to have a mental practitioner who himself had a very low
level of reality because he would be out of agreement with everybody
else's, so that everything to him would be delusion. Just the fact that
somebody said it was real would be enough for him to then state that it
was delusion. One of the ways to handle such a person is to get him just
to feel the table. Don't be amazed if he experiences a fantastic case
gain in that instant. And let him in on something: you feel the table
and you say, "I can feel it too." And it will be such a relief to him
because for a long time he thought only he could.

                290 BOOK THREE

    Now out of these questions of, "What is reality?", "What is a
being?" and "What is a mind?" we can map a path with great security and
find out what it is that has Man trapped, and why Man acts and reacts as
he does. All this is very elementary once you know the basic
definitions.

    The engram is a mental image picture of an experience which contains
pain and unconsciousness. A secondary is a mental image picture of an
experience which contains loss and is therefore mis-emotional. In
Dianetic processing, you have to know what the mind is, and it isn't
anything more complicated than what I've told you.

    How did it get made? A thetan is a compulsive mocker-upper. By a
mock-up we mean a mental image creation, ordinarily, and he is able to
create instantaneously. He makes a full picture of his being hit by a
bullet. He is so overwhelmed by it that he thinks the obvious thing for
him to do is make a picture of it. And that is the one flaw in a thetan
which makes him aberrated.

    If you can get him over doing this so that he can recover from this
mad obsession to make a picture of everything that happens to him and
then hide it from himself and then fix it up so it can impinge itself
upon his existence, you can get him out of the cage. The case happens to
be that the individual is trapped by his own creations.

    Now he dramatizes these pictures or they enforce computations on
him. He will go through being shot because he has an engram of being
shot. He does this by getting dislocated in time. The precision with
which a thetan mocks these things up as they happen and then puts them
on the time track with the exact time on them is amazing. It is correct
within seconds. If it happened four years, two months, one day, three
hours, seven minutes and two seconds ago, that is the exact thing that
will fall on the meter.

    He can also turn time around to how long ago it was. You can run it
from the beginning but you'd better not because there are some booby
traps at the beginning. But if you run it from present time back, you'll
find that this ability to spot in time these mental image pictures of
experience is amazing. It is so great that sometimes all you

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 291

have to do is date how long ago the incident occurred to have it blow.
An individual has to be in pretty good shape, however, before you can do
that.

    In essence, the mind is those pictures which have been made of
experiences and plotted against time and preserved in energy and mass in
the vicinity of the being and which, when restimulated, are recreated
without his analytical awareness. That's the mind you're working with
and trying to get out of. You say we're trying to get this individual
out of a body. No, you won't get anybody out of a body so he'll stay out
because he's so weakened by his mind that he cannot control or handle
himself in relation to his body.

    The trick of all this is that you cannot make a postulate or an
intention through this mass called the mind. And whenever you do, the
mind restimulates so a thetan is not able to make or handle things by
postulates. He has an impulse to say, "You will be all right," as in
miracle healing. Saint Peter meets someone and wants to heal him. The
intention is there to make the fellow all right. But St. Peter's
intention goes only so far, collides with whatever engrams are in
restimulation and goes splat! He immediately concludes that that is not
a good thing to do, whereas his intention is actually terrifically
powerful.

    A thetan's thought can't go through his own barricade of his
mock-ups, so obviously the fewer creations of experiences an individual
has around him and the fewer there are to restimulate, the more he can
think or project his thoughts, or the bigger he gets. You can delete
these experiences by Dianetic auditing.

    Let's say an individual is always going around bent over. There may
be dozens of reasons he's going around like that all contained in the
mind. But you can be absolutely sure that he's got a mental image
picture where something made him get bent over. Theoretically you could
say, "All right, the incident in which you are bent over like this will
now appear," and he would get the incident. You'd better not do this
with any case that is having any trouble at all, but with someone who is
pretty well uptone and doing fine you can ask things like that. The
trouble is, if they're uptone they aren't obeying their engrams to that
degree.

                292 BOOK THREE

    But if he did not then get the incident and it remained black, you
could then get the duration of the incident. You could get the date of
the incident. You date it, then get the duration and the pc will get the
picture of it. And there he is dangling from a tree with a rope under
him having been shot with 54 arrows or some experience of this
character.

    This has various complications. The individual is all messed up
because he's trying not to dramatize the engram in which he's stuck; and
he's trying not to dramatize it because the tendency of the individual
and the dramatization is to repeat in action what has happened to one in
experience. That's a basic definition of it. Much more important, it is
a replay out of its time and period now of something that happened then.

    Either the person is totally unrestrained and therefore totally
dramatizing, at which moment we consider he is mad, or he has the
impulse to dramatize but he knows he'd better not. A fellow will tie
himself down like Gulliver in Lilliput and hold himself back trying to
keep from dramatizing some incident.

    So there is a double action here: the impulse to dramatize and the
effect of the incident on the individual, and the individual's
analytical awareness that it's not bright, whenever one sees a rock, to
pick it up and hit someone with it. He thinks he's rather odd and
doesn't know where this comes from, so he begins to lose confidence in
himself. Each time he sees a rock he has an impulse to pick it up and
bash somebody's head in with it, and he knows that's not nice. It isn't
that he's afraid of the police; it's because he's basically good, he
doesn't want to do those things. But there is the rock and there is a
head. So he starts holding things up so he can't look at rocks, and soon
he is walking around bent over all the time so he won't see any rocks.
He's dramatizing an incident where somebody else picked up a rock and
hit him over the head with it and then he went into the other person's
valence which was the winning one.

    You're dealing with the basic mind. The core of the reactive bank
also has this same character; but it is so outrageous, so different, and
so overwhelming that you're not about to touch that unless you've got
the exact map.

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 293

Even when you've got the exact map you occasionally knock your block
off. But you are approaching this lightly, dealing with this
lifetime--probably the last year or two--and some people have probably
not penetrated any deeper than this morning's breakfast.

    In view of the fact that a person doesn't know what happened,
occasionally he tells himself what happened. Therefore he will sometimes
have his actual experience overlaid with another experience. This is the
way you get too many Julius Caesars. The man was a mad heterosexual with
very nasty personal habits whose ideas of conquest were laughable. He
conquered such countries as England which were ready to welcome the
Romans at that time. They would have brought them ashore and shaken them
by the hand, but Caesar landed with chariots and spears so he could
conquer everybody. And he cut off the right hands of 50,000 Gauls.
That's pretty suppressive. Nevertheless, this made him the winning
valence, so a lot of people who served with him on his side and a lot of
people on the other side would register loud and long as Julius Caesar.

    Whenever you have a personality that has been terrifically
successful or a personality who has been terribly overwhelming, vicious
and oppressive, you get a lot of people in that time in that valence,
because there are a lot of mental image pictures of it. So don't get too
baffled about past lives. Every once in a while past lives get so
invalidated that people don't want anything to do with them. They've
seen too many Julius Caesars. And it tends to suppress one saying, "I
was Cassius." It's the invidious comparison.

    For instance, a perfectly valid and capable statesman has a plan
that is going to help the British Empire. He meets a complete idiot who
says that he used to be Disraeli and he has a plan to save the British
Empire. The statesman tends to feel he must be crazy because he also has
a plan to save the British Empire. This is invidious comparison. A
person thinks, "I couldn't have lived before because look at those nuts
talking about past lives. There are three Julius Caesars over there and
two Napoleons."

                294 BOOK THREE

    Sometimes if the pc is being too doubtful about all this and is
having a hard time on it, run suppress and invalidate and so forth on
the subject of "have you lived before?" You'll get some very interesting
results.

    Because thetans are meshed in to the degree that they are smashed
down by mass and the mind, it's very hard for them to remember more than
a few years. One of the reasons is that a thetan's effort to remember
gets painful so he'd rather not remember. When a person is 21 years old
and 21 years ago he was blown to pieces by a cannon ball, trying to coax
him to remember any earlier than 20 years ago, or even more comfortably
16 years ago becomes very difficult unless a person knows what he's up
against.

    One of his favorite methods of handling the bank is almost as crazy
as making it in the first place: it's to forget about it. You have to be
up in the vicinity of Clear before it really starts to look hilariously
funny. As high as Grade V, and certainly as high as Grade IV, people
still try to figure out how this bank, this mind of theirs is valuable.
This is an excuse not to confront it. A person's effort to confront it
is an effort to confront very, very painful experiences which he doesn't
want to confront. He says, therefore, that there must be some virtue in
it so he'd better leave it there. This is another method he uses in
fooling himself concerning it.

There is a whole cult that follows this, the cult of psychology which
actually subscribes to the theory that you had better be glad you're
neurotic. But that is merely a school's expression of something that
beings kind of want to think anyhow. If you can't cure neurosis and you
don't know what the mind is all about then you can excuse all that by
simply saying, "You don't want anything done about your mind because
it's a good thing you're neurotic; all great artists are nuts."

    But the mind is a complex mechanism which influences the individual
and which he's better off without. And you really won't believe all the
way that you'd be better off without it until you finally get rid of it.
Then you'll say, "I sure had a lot of weird reasons why I was hanging on
to all this coal tar. I must have been nuts!" That's right!

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 295

    Every now and then somebody's got a genius valence all rigged up to
answer questions--a computer. He says, "How big should I build this
building?" He gets, "562 1/2 feet high," and puts it down on the
drawing. He wouldn't know what to do without that thing. It never occurs
to him that he himself has to go around there to work out the answer and
then come back here and hear it. He will become very sad about losing
his mind if he gets one of these things half desensitized: it's still
there but it doesn't work anymore and he hasn't taken back and owned the
ability. It's erased to a point where it doesn't work. At this point he
will be rather regretful of having done something about it. When he
says, "How big should the building be?" there's dead silence. With
further auditing he gets a bit better and all of a sudden he says, "The
building ought to be 819 feet tall, any fool could see that." He can see
that now. What he had been doing was attributing the ability to a
circuit and putting it on an automatic-response basis. He was in actual
fact using a valence.

    Every once in a while you'll see a six-year-old child playing a
piano or a violin with a symphony orchestra. Suddenly he's ten or twelve
and one day he looks at a piano or a violin and he doesn't know what it
is. That same mechanism has occurred, except he's been working on a
circuit and has somehow or other erased part of it or has done something
about it, if he got up to a point of realization.

    In one lifetime you can almost erase your own skills if you put them
all on picture form. The way to do that is to stick yourself in college,
get a nice valence which is "the expert," and then always consult the
expert, and never think it out for yourself. Then one day accidentally
abandon this thing, mislay it, or move on the time track so that you're
not near it any more, and then be totally lost and not have the skill.
But who has the skill in the first place? The individual himself.

    Now the thetan, once having started this trick of mocking up and
holding on to all of his personal experiences, then began to find
virtues for it, and he made little machines

                296 BOOK THREE

and circuits. And when you start reversing this procedure he wonders
what is happening because halfway through any action he will have lost
the benefit of the machine or circuit without himself having regained
the ability.

    This is not true, however, of his IQ graph. Any processing increases
IQ. The individual is getting brighter, and that's the final test of it.

    A great many things have been borne out about Dianetic auditing
since we have begun to make clears. Man is basically good, and the more
mind you get rid of, the brighter you get, until you get rid of all of
it. Then you're very bright. You as an auditor had better get familiar
with the mind: those are the bars of the cage in which your preclear is
trapped.

    The technology required to vanquish this thing is actually in excess
of the simple erasure of pictures. You have to know an awful lot. That
doesn't mean it isn't still a simple problem and that the definition of

the mind doesn't hold, but it means that the mind is more complex and
the experiences have been far more complex than anybody had ever
imagined. And it is much harder for somebody to confront.

    An early Dianetic Clear was a release, and quite validly he had been
temporarily cleared. But his reactions to the entirety of existence were
really far less than those of a Clear and infinitely less than those of
an OT. After you are Clear then you have to study up and regain what you
can do. Anybody who is clever enough to mock up a mind and keep it in
place and not even know about it for that long has got a lot of
abilities.

    But an individual has as many engrams and secondaries as he has had
experiences. I won't ask you to take my word for how old you are--it's
very impolite, particularly to ladies, to hang any vast age upon you.
But if you start chalking it up on the meter as to how long you've had a
mind, you will come up with something very interesting indeed. You'll
feel better, too, unless you get too serious about it and then you'll
plummet yourself right down into the middle of the reactive bank and
have an awful time. But if you asked the question bluntly, "how old am
I?" you would

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 297

probably get a variety of answers because, of course, you are the ones
who invented time. And you aren't old. You have been in a certain state
for a certain period of time and you can measure those states but you
cannot measure a total with any degree of accuracy. You're going to get
variations.

    But there has been quite a long period. Let's say you've averaged a
pain out of every year; you've at least stubbed your toe. And let's say
you've had a major catastrophe at least every lifetime. Therefore divide
25 into the length of time which reads on the meter that you have had a
mind, and you will get too many trillion incidents for anybody in this
lifetime to sit and erase.

    Theoretically it could all be erased incident by incident, chain by
chain. But you haven't got that much auditing time and nobody's got that
much patience. It would take thousands of hours, maybe binary digits of
hours, and this is impractical for a human being because the average age
of decay of the body is 75 years, and it would take more than 75 years
to get in enough auditing to erase all of the engrams on the track.

    Therefore, I had to bring this right to basics of what a thetan
consists of rather than what he mocks up. By addressing the thetan and
its mechanics, it is possible to clear somebody well within a couple of
years.

    The lower grades are perfected and there is no shortcut for Grade VI
and Clear. Anybody who tells you there is, is trying to cut your throat.
Remember that. There is no short cut. Someone told me he thought I would
have blown the whole bank just by plotting it. No, not even me.
Eventually I got so I could take a fantastic engram of being blasted all
to pieces and betrayed at the same time and blow it just by inspection.
But confronting the basic reactive bank isn't like that. I'm not trying
to scare you; I'm just trying to keep you from making mistakes.

    You should untangle your nomenclature and get your misunderstood
words out of this area because this is very, very important. In erasing
engrams, you encounter the various phenomena already mentioned. And you
might think that the toughest incident would be the earliest incident.
However, the toughest incident to try to do anything about is the most
recent one, and the easiest is the earliest.

                298 BOOK THREE

    A chain simply means a series of incidents of similar content.
There's the "hit by car" chain. There may only be one engram on that
chain, but that would be very rare indeed. There may be 20 on the "hit
by car" chain. But if we confine ourselves to this lifetime, we may find
one or two on the "hit by car" chain that won't erase, because the basic
occurred many lifetimes ago.

    People don't like past lives because it points their attention back
at a lot of agony. There's a good reason for it. For example, a fellow
is 41 years old; 41 years ago he died. He probably didn't die pleasantly
either, being the kind of fellow he is. If you tell him he's lived
before this life, you're pointing his attention back at that horrible
incident and he just bounced right straight back to present time,
shaking. You think he's angry because you're talking about past lives.
No, he's terrified.

    The resolution of a problem requires that you handle the elements of
the problem. Therefore if you insist on a person staying in this
lifetime, you're going to run into the "hit by car" chain with two
incidents in this lifetime. You are trying to erase these last two of
520 incidents. He was first hit by a car 1,765,777 years, three months,
one day, one hour and ten seconds ago. So when you go through an
incident once and it doesn't desensitize, and you start the fellow
through again and the incident now appears a little bit heavier and
massy, you'd better realize you're probably at number 520 on that chain,
and if you try to put this fellow through it too often it's going to get
heavier and heavier and thicker and thicker. You must erase the earlier
incident. It always requires the earliest incident you can reach to
totally desensitize a chain. But here is one of the symptoms: you start
the pc through an engram, and when you bring him back through it to go
over it again, he says exactly what he said before without any change or
variation. He is no longer in the time of that engram. He has bounced
and he's now running the lock he put into PT. It was so heavy that it
laid in a lock in present time.

    Also, he has learned better than to go near it. You've run into the
mechanism exactly of why a thetan keeps a mind: because he doesn't want
to confront it. It would erase

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 299

if he confronted it, but it is too painful for him to do so. You have
actually got the pc in over his head.

    If you run what he can erase and what reads well on the meter,
you've got a level of confront he can confront.

    "Did you ever lose anything?" He thinks for a little while and says,
"Yeah, I lost a ring." That's the incident. But as you run him through
it with Dianetic auditing--it's a secondary because it contains
loss--you are going to get meter action. And you'd better watch your
meter, too, because it's liable to go free needle. And if it does,
that's it on that chain, get onto something else.

    A man can remember what he can confront and that's all he's going to
remember. If he had a fight at breakfast, he's not going to want to
remember breakfast. If he got hit by a truck ten years ago, he doesn't
want to remember "hit by a truck ten years ago." If he talks about it at
all, it's because he's talking about a lock which he's moved up into PT
which is comfortable. He'll tell you all about having been hit by a
truck but he won't give it to you in present time, as though it's just
now this minute happening. Instead, he comes to present time away from
the incident with a sort of synthetic history of the incident, and he
can go through that. If you run unreading incidents, that's the way he
will run engrams: synthetic and PT. He doesn't want to go back down.

    The person at fear on the tone scale will act like he's on a
powerful spring which is shooting him straight up the track to PT. He's
stuck right here and now. He's not going to go back anyplace. He doesn't
even want to remember what he had for breakfast. This is not the chap
who wins medals for courage. He acts like he's being ejected on
hydraulic thrust straight up to present time.

    Freud was dealing with people of this type all the time. They were
as crazy as they couldn't confront, and they were pretty nutty. Yet he
was asking them to go back and remember their childhood. It never
occurred to him to ask them if they could remember entering his office
because they probably would not have been able to tell him.

    Amnesia is not a very mysterious mechanism. The amnesiac is so
spooked that he doesn't dare remember ten

                300 BOOK THREE

seconds ago. He has had some experience earlier than which he is not
going to remember, including the experience. He is only willing to
remember some moment after that experience. We call this amnesia, but he
is just scared.

    You will run into this all the time in varying degrees in pcs, and
the worst ones are those that are rigid in present time. They are going
along with each click of the clock and no further back than the last
click. Such a person will tell you he has a bad memory.

    That is not the only source of bad memory. A bad memory is simply
accumulated occlusion of it all. Nevertheless it is non-confront. For
instance, trying to train somebody with beatings would be the last way
in the world you could get him to learn, because you're giving him all
of his education so that he can't confront it. This tells you why some
instructors who are beloved by their students turn out geniuses: the
students find the instruction very easy to confront.

    Now where do you find relief to this situation of a pc being stuck
in present time? You will actually get the pc back into the first part
of the incident and get him to roll it off. Maybe he'll even go through
it once. He'll suddenly hold back the pain that hit his hip. That's it!
He was already in it, but like a diver emerging from the sea, he'll come
up to the surface and run the incident the next time straight along
present time where it's nice and safe. He doesn't want anything to do
with that dirty old nasty pain that almost took his leg off. It's all a
bouncer but it isn't just a bouncer phrase that pushes people up to
present time or shoots them about.

    Now an individual is liable to feel so imprisoned at some point of
the track that he knows he cannot progress any further than that point
forever. And you'll find somebody who's totally stuck on the track. But
this is somebody who is terrified of the future. And people get in this
frame of mind when they're about to be executed. If you can recall the
last time you were about to be executed--time must halt at that point!

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 301

    And you'll find that such a pc seems to go back earlier very easily.
He shoots back to the beginning of anything. You can't hold him in an
incident.

    You say, "We're going to run the automobile accident when you were
five years old."

    He says, "No, I've got one now two thousand years ago. I've got one
now fifteen thousand, I've got one a trillion years ago, I've got one
two trillion years ago."

    You say, "Whoa!" Recognize what you're dealing with. This is a
person who doesn't dare move forward with the time track.

    A Dianetically audited pc misbehaves only when put beyond his
ability to confront, and then you run into all the problems of
Dianetics. You have to know an infinite number of solutions. You have to
be a screaming genius with answers. As an auditor, you have to sit there
and sweat. You've got to be right on the ball. Why? You're running the
pc over his head.

    And one of the best ways in the world to run a pc over his head in
his early auditing is to take a new pc with no familiarity with the mind
and take up an unreading item to discover the source of his lumbosis,
plunge him into it straightaway, and try to force him to go through it.
You will have a very unwilling pc; you will have to practically sit on
his head. He will bounce all over the place. The second time you bring
him through it he runs it in PT, he can find no other part of the chain,
he can't erase it. He's in trouble.

    You're running him beyond his ability to confront, that's all. His
ability to confront is one-millionth of an attention unit, and what
you're asking him to confront requires one thousandth of an attention
unit. He's not about to stay there comfortably and do anything about it
at all.

    Therefore I stress gradient scales. After you have been going a
while the pc's ability to confront comes up. You are getting somewhere.
But the truth is that if you want to make a release this way, don't ever
run an unreading item and he will come out the right end of it. He will
be able to confront more and more, and you have improved his ability to
confront his past experience.

                302 BOOK THREE

    If you run Dianetic auditing right, you will get results. The test
of that is, does your pc feel any better afterwards? If he doesn't, you
have done one of two things: either you've let him go too light or
you've let him go too strong. You have insisted he run some tiny light
lock that he isn't interested in and could confront a dozen like it, or
you've pushed him in over his head. The best test is the pc. The pc
knows what he can tolerate.

    When you run a secondary, you can ask him, "Have you ever lost
anything?" And if you want to be very sure, ask, "Recently, have you
lost anything?" And he says, "Why yes, I lost a ring." Run it. But when
you're asking for moments of loss, remember that you're asking for the
whole chain of all secondaries. So you could soften your question up
even further: "Do you recall a period of sadness?" Attach the chronic
emotion to it and solve that. You could ask for times when he was sad,
times when he was afraid, times when he felt some other emotion.

    In the early days of running Dianetics, there were so many
techniques developed for throwing people into engrams that it was
practically a snap of the fingers and over Niagara Falls the guy went.
We were so skilled in those days in putting people into incidents that
the most remarkable dramatizations would occur.

    But it's true that you can do something with it. I remember one chap
that I snapped into an incident of straight unadulterated terror; terror
so great that as his body shook on the bed, he was lifting the legs of
the bed off the floor and banging them down again in a chatter. I
wouldn't have believed it myself if I hadn't seen it. He was scared! And
there is such a thing as an odor of fear, and that odor permeated the
room to a point where it smelled like a terrified army in full rout. The
incident was right there. He'd been sitting in it, it was in full
restimulation. He had been resisting it, couldn't confront any part of
it, and I just tripped him into it with a bit of skill.

    It was an incident where he and a fellow scout had gone as a couple
of savages to scout the enemy position, had been caught and his
companion had been boiled and eaten before him. In an effort not to get
eaten, he had managed to get

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 303

free and threw himself over a cliff. At first he couldn't really
determine whether he'd been thrown over the cliff because he'd gone mad,
or whether he had thrown himself over. It finally resolved that it was
the latter.

    We ran this out, the emotion discharged from it (I only had to go
through it five or six times) and that finished it. Before he ran it, he
was not about to go anyplace else on the track. It cured something with
him and completely changed his life.

    But the faster process was the first one I ever used, which is
gradient scales--find something the fellow can confront and run him
through it. And factually, I have made people a lot better by getting
them to run the incident of walking into the room to keep their
appointment with me, by coaxing them back that far on the time track.
And I had my best results with that type of an approach.

    You could ask, "What would you say your chronic emotion was?"

    "I think I'm just bored most of the time."

    "Good. Can you remember a time when you were bored?"

    "Yes."

    "Good. Now let's start in at the beginning of that period."

    And you'll find a secondary, then another secondary, and still
another below this, and the next thing you know, you'll find he was made
to be in a place of no interest but some danger for a period of time
that was very upsetting. You don't have to call for engrams to parallel
this, but if you did, sooner or later you'd come up with an incident
where he was perhaps executed in similar surroundings. That would be the
engram behind the secondaries. A chronic emotion is involved; you could
ask for various types of emotion and this way you could sort the thing
out. Get the guy through it, no matter how many commands you have to
give him. That's what you're supposed to do. You can offer
encouragement--"Go on," "Continue," anything similar you want to say.

    And you'll get your best results by not throwing the fellow in over
his head. Then you won't need 8,765 solutions

                304 BOOK THREE

to 50,000 problems. You won't run into any problems if the pc is running
what he almost can confront, and he'll get quite a relief out of running
those. But you would be fascinated at how little some people can
confront.

    You'd also be fascinated at how much some other people can confront.
Another pc will run through an incident with somatics tearing throughout
his body and say, ". . . so the lion took another mouthful out of my
left leg." It's what the pc can do, not what you decide the pc can do.
So the individual who doesn't run well is being asked to confront either
far too much or far too little, and the numbers that will be confronting
too little are very few.

    Far more common is your asking them to confront too much. How much
is too much? That depends on the person you are auditing. That same too
much won't be too much for the next pc; the amount varies from being to
being because experience varies. Not only does experience vary, but
different parts of the track are in restimulation. Some people are in a
very tough basic incident of some kind which makes all other incidents
including the lightest of locks the most painful things imaginable.

    Some people have the idea that there is an engram and then a
secondary which in turn accumulates locks. It isn't that simple. Just
because I have given you simple answers is no reason the mind is simply
built. You have all the jerry-rigged messes of the track. There will be
a chain of the same type of incident: the original and the repeated ones
plotted in time thereafter. For example, the "off with the head" chain
contains 150 engrams, each one of which consists of having one's head
cut off. Parallel to that will be the "off with the head" motivator
series which has maybe 49 incidents where the individual cut someone
else's head off. In addition to all of that, each one of those will have
accumulated locks, which are conscious-level experiences which stick
without the individual knowing quite why. A shiny piece of metal would
be enough to make a lock. So each one of the 150 engrams can have as
many as 300,000 locks.

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 305

    And what are the secondaries? If you were looking at a ladder rung
the the bottom side of that rung were natural wood color and there was a
stripe of black painted across the top of that rung, the natural wood
would be the engram and the black stripe would be the secondary. It's
actually lying right there with the engram. Each one of these 150
engrams has its own secondary, and each of those secondaries has two or
three thousand locks.

    That isn't all. This chain cross-references and interconnects with
other engram chains. For example, "public gatherings, injuries during."
That is not a series of locks. That's an independent series of engrams,
such as being trampled to death in a crowd. So the "off with the head"
chain, the "smashed in the crowd" chain, and the "public gatherings,
injuries during" chain will be cross-referenced and their locks will
intermingle, so that the locks of the "off with the head" chain will
cross over and become the locks of one of the other chains.

    Let me show you where you would really get foxed if you tried to
trace something like this down. This is a typical Freudian problem:
fetishism. For example, the fellow has a fixation on hairbrushes. It
would be impossible to trace any single article such as a hairbrush back
to why the individual is afraid of it. You could desensitize it, you
could find some reasons for it, but to get the basic reason for it? It
occurs in engram chain one, engram chain two, secondary chain four, and
eight billion locks, and it turns out not to be a hairbrush anyhow but a
small black animal. The hairbrush itself is just a restimulator.

    But to set anybody a job of tracing back something like that would
be pure idiociy; there's no point in it. That's the wrong way to go
about it. Such are the cognitions that a pc gets out of it: "I always
wondered why I got colic--it's when my mother wore that cameo that
matches the disc on the bridle that I saw when I was killed in the
tournament!" But he'll find eight thousand more reasons for his colic
before he's through.

    There is hardly anything an individual has not been or done at one
time or another of his career. And to say this is

                306 BOOK THREE

a specialized thetan, that he's always been a magistrate, is a laugh. At
what period in his career did he get tired of being a criminal and
become a magistrate? After having been a ditchdigger, a coal heaver, a
counsel, an artisan, a pilot, a space ranger, and a writer. But the
individual's experiential track is very important with regard to what he
can do when he finally comes out, because we're producing a new thing in
a Clear. We are producing a being without a bank who has experience. Man
has never had anything like that before. One has had main points of
experience on the track which have been more emphasized than other
points and he will tend to be better at these than things he has not had
so much experience with. But it's a case of emphasis, not difference.

    Where your individual is being run on engrams, he can easily get in
too deep, but only if you push him in. If he's not running them
properly, you figure out why. It's either overconfront or underconfront.
My bet is that it's overconfront, and you asked too generalized a
question and took too vague an answer. You didn't get it established;
you didn't decide what you were going to run, and get it all mapped out
before you began it.

    You're going to run some times when the person was scared. When was
the last time he was scared? And the individual trips into this new
mechanism of "mustn't have any future." Back down the track he goes,
winding up in bad incidents. This is simply because you've lost control
of the situation. You didn't steady him on and make him run what you
started to run. You got him all involved in whether he should go
earlier, and he's trying to go totally Clear on engram running. To go
Clear on engram running would take him three of four lifetimes.

    Engrams are the woof and the warp and the exact thing which you're
auditing all the way to Clear. It's what has got us in the cage. And
it's always a good thing when you find yourself in a trap to find out
what the trap consists of.

    But don't despair if you haven't yet been able to run an engram on
anybody. You haven't been able to do so because you've disdained to run
some faint lock. If you can't make any progress with your pc and you
haven't been able to get

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 307

him into anything, run breakfast. You'll find that usually works. If you
can't run breakfast, run the time he came to the session as an incident.
A person can be so bad off that present time and the march of time past
him in this universe is itself a continuous running engram. He is living
in a moment of pain and unconsciousness. And the tick tick of the clock
is an engram in itself. Now a person is pretty batty when he's in that
shape. But that's how bad it can get. And you've run into some vestige
of that when you're not able to run incidents on your pc. He's not about
to go anywhere; it's nice and safe where he is.

    You can always run an incident on somebody. Don't listen to orders
that you must run an engram. Don't take unreading items because you'll
throw him in over his head. Run the incident your pc can confront and
you'll win all the way.

    The most fundamental fundamentals have to be gone into to teach
somebody something about Dianetic auditing. There's a lot of essential
data in ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~, but it runs
engrams quite differently, by repeater technique and by phrases. A
Dianetic session today would look like a repetitive auditing session
with the single exception that it takes longer for the pc to answer the
question. If you tell him to go through it and tell everything that has
happened, that is an auditing command but it may take him five minutes
to answer it.

    In Dianetic auditing he isn't continuously itsaing, you tell him to
go through it and say what happened. When he finishes telling you, you
give him a final acknowledgment.

    Sometimes he gets scared or lonesome and you have to give him an
"uh-huh" to encourage him, as a sort of half acknowledgment. If you give
him too many of these, he'll start talking to you obsessively because he
feels that he's got more to say and you've already acknowledged him. So
get your half acknowledgments really half, "mmm-hmm." Don't say, "GOOD!"
If you really want to start him talking, just do that to him a time or
two, and he'll feel that you're stopping him from talking. He will then
talk more and more. With continuously talking pcs, where the auditor
never has a chance to get a question in edgewise, either the pc has

                308 BOOK THREE

been trained in the field of psychoanalysis, or the auditor is
over-acknowledging and the pc is trying to get past that acknowledgment.

    If auditors can't audit, no auditing gets done. That's very horribly
true. Then nobody makes it up the line at all. I once turned a preclear
over to an auditor who didn't know enough to flatten the process. When
the pc went unconscious, he changed the process. Even if the pc does go
unconscious, get your question answered. If the pc says he can't answer
the question, just sit there until he does. If a pc has no more answers,
the process probably went free needle and you didn't notice. But don't
change a process because a pc goes unconscious. He'll "wake up again"
and answer! These are the little truisms of auditing. Get your auditing
question answered. Don't change processes because the pc goes out like a
light. Don't panic.

    I have made releases with Dianetic auditing; they were the first
Clears. It's not too hard to do. Of course they were simply keyed-out
Clears, which today we call releases, but it completely changed their
lives.

    The trouble I had in those days was that the person felt so good
that he just walked away. There was no training pre-1950. I kept tabs on
these people for some years, but somebody stole my book and I don't have
any idea what happened to them. They really weren't up to a Grade Zero
Scientology release, but they were certainly in much better shape than
they had been. Something had happened. So there's value in this type of
auditing.

    But if you become an expert Dianetic auditor then we're all in
"trouble" because we will start handling spiritually caused ills and all
those poor doctors will be worried about their jobs!

    In Dianetic auditing, you get so that you can handle ARC breaks, the
communication cycle and so on. You get plenty of experience. You can use
a meter. It's quite rewarding for the auditor as well as for the pc.

    The Auditor will get so that he knows that a pc who's being critical
has got a withhold, he knows enough to get his question answered, and
knows enough not to overrun.

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 309

    When the pc completely runs out of answers, you should recognize
that he has done so. It isn't just a dodge, he's not a very imaginative
pc. You say, "Where did you put the cat?" The pc replies, "In the living
room." There's no point in now saying, "Where did you put the cat?"
because there aren't any more answers to it.

    But the way to learn how to audit is to get your hands dirty, and
the dirtiest you can get your hands is going down the reactive bank on
the time track.

    Now there aren't any bugs in Dianetic auditing. They've all been
ironed out, even visio. There is a way to turn on somebody's viso so he
can see the pictures. ~All you do is get the duration of the incident~.
If you get the exact duration of the incident, it'll have visio in it.
So you would have to know how to get the duration of the incident.

    For example, if the pc had been hit on the head with a sledge
hammer, you would have to know if he was hit on the head for one minute
or five minutes or one day. Or suppose the pc says it's all black. He's
never seen pictures. If you get the exact point where he's parked on the
time track with the assistance of your meter, and then get ~the exact
duration~ of the incident, suddenly he has visio, he can ~see~ the
incident.

    To use Dianetic auditing at all you have to know something about
Dianetic auditing. That brings us back to a subject called the human
mind.

    Sigmund Freud started out on an adventure in hypnotism with a fellow
by the name of Breuer, to explore the entirety of the human mind. He
explored it down to a light lock at three years of age and thought he
had done the whole works. That's something like looking at a mountain
and telling everybody you have found the entire mountain because you are
now holding a pebble.

    But occasionally after he had let somebody chatter for a while,
Freud would find a childhood experience of some kind (maybe that was his
own case he was running, who knows?). And he would take some charge off
and the person would feel a little bit better. Then the person would be
told, "Now if you are very, very careful for the next 30 years, you will
not be neurotic any more." That was psychoanalysis.

                310 BOOK THREE

    In 1894, he released the libido theory saying that all life is based
on sex. That is maybe an unkind statement with regard to the libido
theory (libido for love), but nevertheless that was it. In later years,
psychoanalysts had an awful lot of trouble trying to explain this away,
saying that what Freud really meant was that life was based on social
things as well as sex. But Freud didn't say that. He said it was based
on sex.

    In spite of all that, Freud was a sharpie. He did discover that
there was possibly some coordination between mental reaction or mental
experience and psychosomatic illnesses, or physical illnesses stemming
from the mind. He discovered that there was this relationship but he
didn't have any proof for it. How medicine has gone on believing it ever
since has got me staggered because Freud couldn't do it, one for one.
Therefore, it was not really proved. But medicine today believes there
is such a thing as psychosomatic illness, even though they've never
proven it. They can't make somebody's lumbosis go away by doing
something with the mind. But we can. So it's quite factual that physical
illness can result from mental aberration.

    We're not much interested in the vagaries of neurosis and psychosis.
Let somebody else worry about these. Use more basic processes. If you
have got a psychotic, put him someplace where it's nice and quiet, where
he gets something to eat, where he feels safe, and nobody disturbs him
for a long time. Let him look at a motionless object that has some mass
as the common thing for him to do. You'll find out he generally will
come out of it. The difference between neurosis and psychosis is that in
psychosis, the person is generally the effect of everything; and in
neurosis, he's more or less singly the effect of things--he's a deranged
being on some subject.

    All of this is very easy to say today, and it's very easy to cover.
If you want to know more about it, read some things on psychoanalysis.
It's a good practice for you to do so. Nobody's trying to make a
psychoanalyst out of you but you might be curious about it. You won't
find very much there. Knowing Dianetics, you will read far more into
what

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 311

you are reading than was ever there. They didn't know what was there.

    Now let's get into this subject called the mind. The mind is a
literal record of experience plotted against time from the earliest
moment of aberration until now--plus additional ideas the fellow got
about it, plus other things he may have mocked-up or created on top of
it in mental mass, plus some machines, plus some valences. But you can
audit all of those plusses.

    Valences are interesting. Joe Doakes is a monster, Joe Doakes beats
up John Doe; therefore Joe Doakes is the winning valence; and after that
John Doe can keep a valence called Joe Doakes and even BE Joe Doakes
occasionally. Valences make circuits and these circuits will talk to the
being. He can talk to them and they talk to him. This idea of circuits
is very disturbing. It gave the Arab his psychotherapy which was to
chase out the demons. What he was really talking about were these
valences. Now the auditor can actually talk to the pc and get the pc to
talk to the demon or the valence and have the valence talk to the pc and
back to the auditor. It gets that complex. It is an endowed life object.

    Now when we say "record" or "mass," we're speaking of mental mass. A
thetan is quite capable of mocking up mass. He can mock up matter,
energy, space and time. Only in his aberrated condition he mocks it up
very thin indeed. Its proportionate weight would be terribly slight
compared to the real objects which he is mocking up a picture of. He
mocks up a picture of a car; the picture weighs about 100 billionth of a
gram, yet the car weighs two tons. Nevertheless, he can mock up a full
picture of a car in his aberrated condition. When he gets better and
when he's no longer sick or human, of course he can mock up a car. But
that's beside the point. We're getting off into more advanced therapies
now.

    The psychiatrist and the psychoanalyst more and more began to try to
address what the person was creating. They began to consider that
everything there was what the person was creating. So they addressed the
things that the

                312 BOOK THREE

person had himself created and they are not very aberrative. They are
the lightest of aberrations.

    The person says, "I think the room is full of Martians," The
psychiatrist's immediate therapy is, "You're just imagining it." Through
accounts at hospitals you possibly know that that is the standard
response. That's because they are addressing the illusion or the
unactual. They think the illusion is what is wrong with the person.
Actually what is wrong with the person is that he is producing
illusions. You want to find out why he is producing illusions, not tell
him he's imagining it and pronounce him insane because he thinks he's
Napoleon or the Prime Minister. This is illusion.

    The psychiatrist attacks illusion; he's trying to get rid of that.
But that is something that you neglect entirely. You're only interested
in experience. He would have gotten much further had he actually
attacked experience. Sometimes a person gets delusory after he's had an
experience. But this is a minor problem because as the person confronts
the experience he will lose the illusion and get the actual experience.
Illusion is a surface manifestation which disappears when experience is
consulted. So with Dianetic auditing you are auditing experience. Don't
get all clouded up over whether or not it is illusory.

    Advanced Scientology processes that handle valences by assessment
are summed up today in Search and Discovery.* If you want to change
somebody's personality graph fast, audit a few valences, because the
personality graph is actually a picture of a valence on any human being.
He himself is not really enought there to have a personality. He's very
subdued.

    The least profitable is to audit the machine, though very often a
lot of fun. Every once in a while a thetan has got a machine parked out
there with wheels and smoke stacks. This isn't very uniform but it is
remarkable.

    So we take machines out of Dianetic auditing--they are fun but they
don't do anything. You may think I am joking about these machines, but
every now and then you will run into one with great big red flywheels
and brass and little whistles that produces predictions for him or
something like that. These people are not insane; their perception has
to be

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 313

much better than the average in order for them to perceive that they
have these things. So we are going to neglect that.

    You must also neglect illusion in Dianetic auditing. That's very
very important. Illusion is simply the product of the actual, and if you
attack illusion, you prevent him from reaching the actual. Now the
actual is bizarre from the viewpoint of a human being. But people are
all too prone to call the actual and the illusion both illusion, or
hallucination.

    There are people who work on the basis of making someone
hallucinate. For instance, in the play, ~Gaslight~, a man works on this
girl and by changing the actual physical universe, makes her think she
is crazy. He moves something and blames it on her; she can't remember
doing it so she thinks that she's gone mad, that she's having illusions
or hallucinations.

    People work on this all the time. For instance, the newspapers would
like you to believe what they print, but there isn't a line of truth
anywhere in the paper. Somewhere in the human world there was probably
some event that had an actuality on which the news story is based. You
get down to more solid objects like trains running off bridges--it's
easy for them to write something like that because it's at their tone
level--disaster.

    But it's remarkable how much illusion they'll even write about a
train wreck. There was a train wreck but what appears in the paper is
very often quite different. You only have to read about yourself in the
press a few times to then wonder about the story to the right and to the
left of that story. You wonder if Senator Snodgrass was even in
Washington at the time he made that speech. It's spooky! A river of
lies. So that is the social illusion--what normally, laughingly, is
called news. It better compares to an old woman's gossip.

    There used to be gossips occasionally who were put in stocks because
they said nothing but vicious things about everybody and stirred up
trouble and told nothing but lies. The modern gossip is the newspaper,
and if those characteristics were in one human being, that human being
would be driven from the community.

                314 BOOK THREE

    You can expect a pc running things to get an illusion of the event.
Because the event was too much for him to confront, he dreams up what it
was. If you're running a real engram, illusion will often come off of
it. The pc will start changing his mind about it, so don't fix him with
the illusion till he reaches the actual. Don't say, "The last time we
ran that you went off the bridge. Now apparently you weren't in the car
at all." And don't be baffled yourself because the fellow couldn't
confront the experience. He partially confronted it and partially
dreamed it up. The part that he couldn't confront he invented. As he
audits this, his confront gets better and he sees what it is.

    A pc will often get himself confused: "The mental image picture is
absolute and that is what I saw the first time I ran it through, and
therefore I am very upset because the second time through the woman has
a red hat on and she wasn't wearing a hat the first time through!" This,
then, is not a real experience, but it's not for you to evaluate for
him. Just put him through it again and he will say, "Oh, I guess I never
could confront her," or something similar.

    Actual experience is at the root of all illusion, and you are not in
the business of evaluating the context of secondaries and engrams. The
business you are in is the alleviation of the incident--the mental image
picture of the incident itself. A thetan is a busy little bee, and he
will make pictures of events as they occur. He clutches these pictures
to this thetanish bosom and wonders why he's so sick. This is not very
bright, but he does it.

    Let's say he has a great loss, which creates a secondary that
depends for its charge on an engram which containes pain and
unconsciousness. A secondary contains loss. It does not contain pain and
unconsciousness, it contains emotion. Any emotion or misemotion may be
contained in a secondary but of course pleasure does not make a
secondary or an aberrative incident because the person was so happy.

    A person, however, can have a win which is so magnitudinous and so
unexpected that it hangs him up forever. He's always going back to this
big win. Very often old men will sit around and go over their wins with
one another. It was always amazing to me as a little boy

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 315

listening to former road agents, cattle rustlers and ex-sheriffs. They
talked about the horses they had stolen and the cattle rustlers they
hadn't shot and all this sort of thing. And while I found their stories
of interest at first, I soon became very familiar with all of them. But
they would still tell them. One of them would be talking and the other
one would simply not be listening at all but waiting to talk in his
turn. It was interesting to me that those incidents never wore out,
never desensitized. They were good forever, like an unperishable
phonograph record. And that is true about pleasure moments: the thetan
goes on with them forever.

    But a secondary has misemotion: grief, fear. It's the tone scale. We
got the tone scale from the fact that as you run a classic secondary, it
will come up from below apathy into apathy and move right on up the tone
scale in its tones. And it will wind up at boredom, which is the wrong
place to stop because enthusiasm is just above that and at that point he
doesn't care about it any longer. The tone scale was plotted from the
behavior of secondaries under auditing. But to have a secondary--a
moment of loss which is aberrative--an individual must have had an
experience containing pain and unconsciousness, and that is an engram.

    An engram is a mental picture of an event of pain and
unconsciousness. The person had to hurt, and he had to have gone
unconscious to a greater or lesser degree. Sometimes a person goes
unconscious only during the center moment of the hurt, but there's
always a little unconsciousness connected with great pain, and the
mental image picture of that event is the engram.

    The word "engram" means "trace on a cell." At the time I was first
working with this, I was thinking in terms of cellular memory. I didn't
know where these things came from. That was "way back when," and so I
chose a word different from other terms being used, as the first
consideration. The second consideration was that we could define it and
say what it did mean.

    So any time an individual was hurt he made a complete record of the
event. You'd be surprised how complete it is. Do you know that you can
take somebody through a tonsillectomy with a stopwatch? You can even
have a doctor

                316 BOOK THREE

there who knows the speed and action connected with a tonsillectomy and
have him criticize the quality of the surgeon performing it. You can
move the person right through the tonsillectomy by calling off the time
in the operation one minute deep, two minutes, three minutes, and so on.
You can put the time in it.

    A thetan is fantastically accurate in terms of time. Analytically he
gets confused about time but right down deep he never makes an error
about it. He knows reactively exactly when it happened and for how long,
but he now is incapable of confronting the fact, so he makes "errors"
while he's wide awake. You ask some girl how old she is, you'll
understand what I mean. She sometimes looks very vague.

    Very often a person can't tell the date. That's because he doesn't
particularly want to confront dates. But if you went at it with a meter,
you would pick up the exact date. It is recorded but is unconfrontable.
A being records what he can't confront, and that is where he gets
engrams and secondaries. I find that very amusing. Why would he record
it if he can't confront it? If he can't confront it, why didn't he just
skip it? But the truth of the matter is, he didn't. We are only dealing
with what is, not what should be.

    So we have a time track, a consecutive series of events, beginning
with the first aberration of the being on through to the present. And
the wonder of the E-meter is that as a person is more capable of
confronting, the E-meter will help you reach just below to what he
slightly can't confront and will give you a read on it. With the E-meter
you see deeper than he does. But the E-meter doesn't see all the way
down. You'll run right straight across events that won't register on the
E-meter, but when the pc is improved by auditing, you'll find the
E-meter registering on those events that it didn't register on before.
That's because they are closer to being confronted.

    So the E-meter will register on anything that is close to being
confronted, and with it you can see deeper than the thetan can confront,
which is quite amusing. It's as though life is at a level four feet off
the floor with the E-meter able to sound a foot deep. The being can see
only this stratum four feet off the floor but the auditor by use of the
E-meter

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 317

can see three feet from the floor. That doesn't mean there isn't "event"
between three feet and the floor; there are tons of events in there. But
as the being becomes more familiar with his own mind and his own past
and as he becomes more able, this depth increases. When the four-foot
level is very, very easy to confront, then the three-foot level where
the E-meter was seeing before is confrontable by the being himself, and
the meter is now confronting to two feet. And eventually the being can
confront as much as the meter can confront but at that time the
individual is Clear.

    Therefore the function of the E-meter is not that of a seer with a
swami-type turban and a big glass diamond. It is simply something with a
little bit better telescopic sights; it can see a bit deeper than the
being himself. Don't feel completely reassured because there is no meter
read that everything on that subject is gone. No, everything in
restimulation that will have any effect upon the thetan is gone. So
therefore you can easily unflatten things which you have flat. When
you've got something down to a point where it no longer registers on the
meter, that's flat. When you get it down to where you aren't getting
tone arm action, you've more or less got it.

    The mind that is being approached by Dianetic auditing is the mind
of event. And the things in that mind which are aberrative are the
engrams and the secondaries which are often visible through their locks
or tiny surface manifestations.

    A person is hit on the head with a hammer. That makes an engram;
there is physical pain and unconsciousness in it. A few days later he
walks into a hardware store. He doesn't like to be there. He can't tell
you why because he can't confront the incident of being hit on the head
with the hammer. There are hammers in that hardware store but he doesn't
even see what is restimulating the engram. He is merely uncomfortable,
and he will take a picture of the hardware store as an uncomfortable
place.

    You chase him down the time track and he has a picture of a hardware
store, and you couldn't possibly guess why. He might have been hurt with
a blowlamp or he might have gone bankrupt, making a secondary. We don't
know why he

                318 BOOK THREE

has this little picture of a hardware store because there's no pain and
unconsciousness connected with it. But with a meter, getting him to
think it over and look around the area of the incident, we can pick up
what it was a lock on. The lock is in view and the incident is out of
sight.

    What a person knows about is not aberrative. A woman says, "I know
exactly what it is: my second husband, and he beat me all the time with
a club and I've been in terrible shape ever since." We point out this
interesting fact: she knows about that, and she has told a thousand and
one people about that, and it hasn't blown yet. So obviously, that isn't
what's wrong.

    It is your job as the auditor to discover what is wrong. In actual
practice that would be an exercise in finding valences--listing and
assessing lists for individuals or things the pc has known. But we are
talking about it from a Dianetic approach. We go on down the line now to
find out what this is all about. This was her second husband; according
to her, her first husband was a knight in shining armor. That is
illusion.

    Or, you have noticed a fellow is terribly silent; he never has
anything to say. You ask him, "Who was the most talkative person you
ever knew?"

    "Oh, my Uncle Bill, he talked all the time."

    "What did he look like?"

    "Oh, he was a tall fellow, and he had grey hair, and he talked
continuously, he was the most talkative fellow you ever--" He stops.

    You ask, "What's the matter?"

    "That's funny, I can't ever remember him saying a word."

    He is in Uncle Bill's valence, who resented everybody being
talkative; but he has actually transferred valences, so his valence at
the time has now transferred to Uncle Bill's valence.

    You ought to try this some time just for fun. You notice something
about a person and ask him who was the reverse. And watch him get all
confused and mixed up. You notice a very sad, moping-type girl and ask,
"Who's the happiest, gayest, most enthusiastic person you ever knew?"

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 319

    "Bessie Ann."

    "Well, tell me about Bessie Ann."

    About halfway through the dissertation she'll say, "You know Bessie
Ann was the most sour sourpuss I ever ran into in my life."

    She herself had losses in being enthusiastic and trying to cheer up
Bessie Ann.

    That's a valence problem which you're not interested in, but this
comes into auditing because in an engram a pc sometimes swaps valences.
If an individual is looking at himself in the picture he is out of
valence. Just run it--he eventually will get into valence. And if you
want a real tough engram, you will find somebody has been the scaffold,
the headsman, the axe, the block, his wife, a little boy in the crowd,
an egg, a hen. The game in running this incident is to find out what was
he. And if you run it long enough, you'll generally find out that he was
the guy being beheaded or the executioner.

    A danger in running Dianetic engrams is that you might run too late
on a chain. Incidents of similar nature strung out in time are called
chains. Now let's take the automobile accident chain. The individual
will tell you he's been in one automobile accident but when you start
checking it over he's been in three. You have to have the earliest
incident on the chain before you really start grinding away. You can get
too enthusiastic about this, and you can work too hard to find the
earliest incident on the chain, because unfortunately past lives is one
of the first phenomena you'll run into in Dianetic auditing. You'll run
into it in everybody. Of course, the psychiatrist doesn't like us to say
this, and even the church is quite insulted occasionally when we mention
that their converts have lived before this life.

    Now a "this lifetime" address to the situation is recommended
because the number of automobile accidents the fellow's been in may be
nearly infinite. He might have been in dozens, hundreds, thousands. He
may be stuck in an incident in a space society where a flying car hits
him, and that last truck accident is simply hung up on it. But you can't
always insist that he stay in this lifetime because it's very hard for
him to do. He'll skid.

                320 BOOK THREE

    The danger is not in going into a former lifetime, but rather in
trying to erase something that's getting more solid, because it is too
late on the chain. There are two possible mistakes. You can continue to
grind and it gets tougher; or you can hit it too lightly and go back too
quickly again and again without taking enough charge off, and the pc
will become just a ball, all messed up.

    Let's say we have fifteen automobile accidents and we can only find
the fifteenth so we take a light pass through it. We get all the charge
of it off and then we go to the fourteenth. We think that is the
earliest one now; that's what it registers on the meter. (By the way,
it's a bad thing to use "earli~est~ one" because you quite commonly have
a lot of earli~est~ ones earlier than the one you are running: so it's
better auditing terminology if you say the "earli~er~" incident.)

    So you get the fourteenth. You don't know it's the fourteenth yet,
you think it's number one. And you go through it, but it also behaves in
a peculiar fashion and if you grind it too hard the pc will be in a bad
way. So you find the thirteenth, and here's where you might
enthusiastically make a mistake: you just note that there's a
thirteenth, note there's a twelfth, note there's an eleventh, and tenth,
and ninth, and so on. That's not good. That's trying to shoot him down
with the same perception as the E-meter. There's not enough charge off.
You must go through those incidents. You should get enough charge off of
them so that he can go through them and go down earlier on them.

    So an auditor can make this error, and it's a very serious error to
try to follow down a chain without running what you find on it, just out
of your impatience or the pc's curiosity. If he's had fourteen
automobile accidents, you better run him through fourteen until you get
to the first one. Maybe in the last two or three at the bottom he'll
suddenly jump to the first one and you run that and the whole chain
blows.

    But you can ball him up. The area has too much unconfrontable stuff
in it. But the more of these he goes through, the more he can confront
and the deeper he can go and the more charge blows off. In other words,
the more

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 321

material he has confronted, the more he is able to confront it and you
will finally get him down to where he can confront basic on the chain.

    Now sometimes a pc will fool you; he himself will get so anxious
that he skips five, six, seven incidents just to get to that bottom one.
And the next thing you know he's gone into the glue. A pc gets very
confused if you do this. The right way is to erase the auditing. You
don't go back and do what you should have done--you just erase the
auditing. Treat the session as an incident and erase it as a lock and
everything goes back together again rather neatly.

    Usually when a person has a rough session, right away we want to get
him over to review and get his ARC breaks off. But you don't have to do
that. Run the session as an incident: "You remember the beginning of
this session? All right, go to the beginning of this session. All right,
rapidly pass through to the end of the session and tell me the incident
and tell me what happened." Do that two or three times and that's it.
You can erase anything if you're good. But oddly enough, if you took him
through the session two or three times it might gum him up because he's
had some earlier rougher sessions that you should have gone back to on a
chain. You've got a new chain--rough sessions. You might say you can
always go through something once. But if it's a chain, watch it.

    So the whole of Dianetic auditing is the tracing of experience.
There are thousands of phenomena. And the funny part of it is all you
really need to know is pretty well contained in this book and
~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~.

    There's power in this stuff. You can become involved in Dianetic
auditing very easily because it is the root material of life.

    There is another handy thing to know: If you get some lifetime in
restimulation, run the engram of the death and the life will
desensitize. When the pc is stuck in a lifetime as a sewer cleaner in
Paris, it is such a degraded life that he may at first tell you he was
Joan of Arc during that period. He isn't necessarily wrong about this,
but he actually was jumping to an earlier life and getting it
beautifully confused

                322 BOOK THREE

so that he wouldn't have to face the degradation of the sewer cleaner in
Paris life.

    The lives that almost make it are the bad ones, the lives so
degraded a pc can't imagine himself as that kind of a being. Those will
upset him. It isn't really the successful lives. People will run Julius
Caesar with the greatest of ease but they wouldn't like to run Cassius.
People who run Julius Caesar were probably someone horrible during
Caesar's lifetime. They're like the person flying around in the incident
who is the headsman, the headsman's axe, the block, the executioner, and
so on.

    You can have a lot of fun running stuff like this. You can find out
a lot about track, pcs have an awful lot of cognitions, and you may hit
some lower levels of release. But that would be release by chain. You
are not going to get a release from the whole experiential track. That's
not possible. You might get a free needle on automobile accidents, and
if you do, pull out. But then don't go on running auto engrams; find
some other type of engram.

    I can assure you that you're seldom going to get a total bank
release because those total releases are above this at Scientology
Grades 0 through V. You're going to get negative releases on the minus
scale which you have on the Gradation Chart.* Apparently you can assess
the minus levels and sometimes produce a release just by assessing them
where the pc is stuck, but don't keep on assessing after you see a free
needle.

    If your pc is very groggy after a Dianetic session, get him to look
around the room. Get him to name two or three objects in the room and it
actually will orient him in PT. Try for light locks when you first start
running incidents. Then try for a little bit more in the way of
secondaries. If you just keep auditing secondaries, you'll eventually
fall into engrams. He can run the secondary, but the engram is too much
for him to confront, at first, so he can't run that, but the reason for
the secondary is the engram.

    The fellow is sad at the departure of his wife. If he is
exaggeratedly sad and she wasn't a very good cook, you can't see how
this is going to ruin his next hundred years. But he's all set to have
this ruin his next hundred. Why is

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 323

that? Well, it's sitting on an engram; and maybe he was a wife in a life
before and got shot, or something like that. There's pain and
unconsciousness associated with a similar contextual incident. Now he
gets this heavy grief type incident and he doesn't know what to make of
it.

    Auditing of secondaries has great value. It takes a long time to
audit these things sometimes. You fall into it, you start developing it,
you start recognizing it because it's very obvious. For instance I could
take ten or fifteen years off the appearance of any widow by simply
running her husband's death. It's fantastic. You wouldn't believe the
change that would occur.

    There are certain things that you can do that produce remarkable and
fantastic changes in a being. There are certain things that you can
alleviate. But let me warn you: don't try using Dianetic auditing to
handle somebody's lumbosis. Every so often you will handle his lumbosis
spiritually, every so often you'll have a win. But that's the wrong way
to go about it because you're validating a down-statistic. You're giving
him attention because he's got lumbosis and he tends to deteriorate as a
being.

    You want to use this just as you use any other kind of auditing: to
improve the being. You are auditing a thetan, you are not auditing
lumbosis. You're not medical doctors or psychiatrists. You are people
who can make beings totally recover. You have the technology of total
recovery of a being. And that doesn't mean a body.

    And that is so fundamental a truth that as long as you use any
auditing just to make the being better, you'll have wins. All you're
trying to do is to improve the person's confront. But if someone wants
to be audited to cure his medicosis, a deadly illness, I don't think I'd
take that pc on. I would much rather audit his sister who wants to dance
better. This guy is down the line in a sort of a cave-in. He's going to
be rough as he'll be very anxious. He's already told you he has a hidden
standard.* When he says "cure my medicosis," he's saying, in essence,
"If you can have an effect upon my medicosis, then I will believe in
Scientology." And I don't think it will change any part of human history
whether he believes in Scientology or not.

                324 BOOK THREE

    If you know somebody who thinks he can be better, I'll happily audit
him. But I've had enough hidden standards. His medicosis probably
wouldn't alleviate until he's about a Scientology Grade V, and he's
asking me to do it with two seconds at Grade 0. He's so stuck on a
hidden standard that he wouldn't even care if his communication was
better. He's all wrapped up in problems. There are ways and means to
handle this person but not in routine Dianetic auditing. This is fun.
Why get serious about it?

    In your early career you often burned your finger or cut your hand,
and an auditor can run it out. It's very remarkable. An auditor can make
burns go down and do all sorts of magical things with people. Don't burn
yourself just so that you can have the experience, but it is interesting
to watch a blistered finger go down as an auditor steadily runs out the
incident of your having burned it. (I wouldn't advise you to do it for
some little kid just because he's burned; I'd give him a touch assist.)

    Every once in a while in auditing somebody with these, you'll get a
fantastic win. Please don't get stuck in those wins. There's greater
value to this auditing than Man ever before had. This solves with
spectacularity problems far beyond those Sigmund Freud was concerned
about. Have wins by all means, but don't say, "Hey! You can cure people
with this. Ron's really got something there! The guy had a withered arm,
I ran three engrams, and his arm grew the normal size. This is for me!"
You go out and collect a whole bunch of people with withered arms and
that's it.

    I've seen more auditors ruin their careers by making a career out of
one psychotic. Think of all the able people that could have been made
more able while one psychotic was giving an auditor a rough time. The
reason he was psychotic was probably his environment, and if he wasn't
even removed from his environment to be audited he got up two feet and
got knocked back three. For instance, one auditor kept auditing a girl
in New York City who would come up to anger and run away from the
household. The family would promptly blame the auditor because the girl
was now angry, put her into apathy, and get the auditor to audit her
again. He would audit her to anger again and the family would

                DIANETIC AUDITING AND SOCIETY 325

blow up because the person now couldn't be lived with. So they would
knock her back into apathy again. What an awful waste of time.

    The road out is the road you have--Dianetics then up through the
grades. And it took all this knowledge of Dianetic auditing, all the
material, all the observations, all those years of work to carve that
very thin and now rather ordinary looking path that works fast up
through the grades.

    You will be rather interested to learn about recorded incidents. You
will become very familiar with this thing called the human mind as you
use this in auditing. You will get an interesting insight into such
things as history, customs and habits of bygone races. You'll have lots
of fun, and you might make some minus grade releases.

    If you were to go out and hang up a shingle with this, you'd get
probably 50 to 60 percent wins. But you're rewarding a down-statistic.
That's probably what's wrong with him in the first place: he wants
attention. And if you go bog yourself down at this stage of development
of Scientology with handling all the sick and the insane of this planet,
you will never get any place. There are all kinds of people who aren't
sick or insane.

    Somewhere up the line--in a century or a millenium--registrars are
going to run out of auditors and pcs. By that time, everybody will
either be very adept or very disinterested. But wait for such a time as
when a Scientology church to function must have such pcs. Then get into
it. You're not strong enough or stable enough to suddenly take on all
the woes of the world simultaneously. I can confront them, but that's no
reason I have to audit them.

    So routine Dianetic auditing is not for the psychotic, the neurotic
or the sick, in spite of the fact that it could probably handle them. It
is to make those who are able even more able.


                CHAPTER 2

                R3R PROCEDURE

    If an auditor hasn't a clue about the time track and its
composition, he or she won't ever be able to run engrams. So, obviously,
the first thing to teach and have passed in engram running is time track
composition. When the auditor learns that, he or she will be able to run
engrams. If the auditor does not know the subject of the time track
well, then he or she can't be taught to run engrams, for no rote
commands that cover all cases can exist. You couldn't teach the handling
of a motion picture projector by rote commands if the operator had never
imagined the existence of film. An auditor sitting there thinking the
preclear ~is~ doing this or that and being in a general fuddle about it
will soon have film all over the floor and wrapped about his ears. His
plea for a rote command will just tangle up more film so long as he
doesn't know it ~is~ film and that ~he~, not the preclear, is handling
it.

    If an auditor can learn this, he will ~then~ be able to learn to run
those small parts of the time track called engrams. If

                328 BOOK THREE

an auditor can't run a preclear through some pleasant time track
flawlessly, he or she sure can't run a preclear through the living
lightning parts of that track called engrams.

    An auditor who cannot handle the time track smoothly can scarcely
call himself an auditor as that's all there is to audit besides
postulates. No matter what process you are using, no matter what process
you invent and even if you tried what is laughingly called a
"biochemical approach" to the mind. There's only a time track for the
bios to affect.

    There's a thetan, there's a time track. The thetan gets caught in
the time track. The job of the auditor is to free the thetan by digging
him out of his time track. So if you can't handle what you're digging a
thetan out of, you're going to have an awful lot of land slides and a
lot of auditing loses for both you and preclears.

    Invent games, devices, charts and training aids galore and teach
with them and you'll have auditors who can handle the time track and run
engrams.

    Charge, the stored quantities of energy in the time track, is the
sole thing that is being relieved or removed by the auditor from the
time track.

    When this charge is present in huge amounts, the time track
overwhelms the pc and the pc is thrust below observation of the actual
track.

    This is the State of Case Scale. (All levels given are major levels.
Minor levels exist between them. The following scale is ~NOT~ to be
confused with levels of training per the Classification and Gradation
chart.)


Level 1 No track             No charge

Level 2 Full visible time    Some charge
        track

Level 3 Sporadic visibility  Some heavily charged areas
        of track

Level 4 Invisible track      Very heavily charged areas
        (Black or invisible  exist
        field)

Level 5 Dub-in               Some areas of track so heavily
                             charged pc is below uncon-
                             sciousness in them

                R3R PROCEDURE 329

Level 6 Dub-in of dub-in     Many areas of track so heavily
                             charged, the dub-in is
                             submerged

Level 7 Only aware of own    Track too heavily charged
        evaluations          to be viewed at all

Level 8 Unaware              Pc dull, often in a coma.


    On this scale the very good, easy to run cases are at level 3.
Skilled engram running can handle down to level 4. Engram running is
useless from level 4 down. Level 4 is questionable.

    Level 1 is of course an OT. Level 2 is the clearest Clear anybody
ever heard of. Level 3 can run engrams. Level 4 can run early track
engrams if the running is skilled. (Level 4 includes the Black V case.*)

Level 5 has to be run on general ARC processes. Level 6 has to be run
carefully on special ARC processes with lots of havingness. Level 7
responds to the CCHs. Level 8 responds only to reach and withdraw CCHs.

    Pre-Dianetic and pre-Scientology mental studies were observations
from level 7 which considered levels 5 and 6 and 8 the only states of
case and oddly enough overlooked level 7 entirely, all states of case
were considered either neurotic or insane, with sanity either slightly
glimpsed or decried.

    In actuality on some portion of every time track in every case you
will find each of the levels except 1 momentarily expressed. The above
scale is devoted to ~chronic~ case level and is useful in programming a
case. But any case for brief moments or longer will hit these levels in
being processed. This is the temporary case level found only in sessions
on chronically higher level cases when they go through a tough bit.

    Now what makes these levels of case?

    It is entirely ~charge~. The more heavily charged the case, the
lower it falls on the above scale. It is charge that prevents the pc
from confronting the time track and submerges the time track from view.

    Charge is stored energy or stored or recreatable potentials of
energy.

                330 BOOK THREE

    The E-meter registers charge. A very high or low tone arm, a dirty
needle all are registrations of this charge. The "chronic meter of a
case" is an index of chronic charge. The fluctuations of a meter during
a session are registering relative charge in different portions of the
preclear's time track.

    More valuably the meter registers ~released~ charge. You can see it
blowing on the meter. The blowing down of the TA, the heavy falls, the
loosening needle all show charge being released.

    The meter registers charge found and then charge released. It
registers charge found but not yet released by the needle getting tight,
by dirty needle, by a climbing tone arm or a tone arm going far below
the Clear read. Then as this cleans up, the charge is seen to "blow."

    Charge that is restimulated but not released causes the case to
"charge up," in that charge already on the time track is triggered but
is not yet viewed by the pc. The whole cycle of restimulated charge that
is then blown gives us the action of auditing. When ~prior~ charge is
restimulated but not located so that it can be blown, we get "ARC
breaks."

    The state of case, the chronic level, as given on the above scale,
is the totality of charge on the case. Level 1 has ~no~ charge on it.
Level 8 is total charge. The day-to-day condition of a case, its temper,
reaction to things, and brightness depends upon two factors: a) the
totality of charge on the case and b) the amount of charge in
restimulation. Thus a case being processed varies in tone by (a) the
totality of charge remaining on the case (b) the amount of charge in
restimulation and (c) the amount of charge blown by processing.

    Charge is held in place by the basic on a chain. When only later
than basic incidents are run charge can be restimulated and then bottled
up again with a very small amount blown. This is known as "grinding out"
an incident. An engram is getting run, but as it is not basic on a
chain, no adequate amount of charge is being released.

                R3R PROCEDURE 331

    Later than basic incidents are run either (a) to uncover more basic
(earlier) incidents or (b) to clean up the chain after basic has been
found and erased.

    No full erasure of incidents later than basic is possible, but
charge can be removed from them ~providing they are not ground out~ but
only run lightly a time or two and then an earlier incident on the chain
found and similarly run. When ~the~ basic is found ~it~ is erased by
~many~ passes over it. Basic is the only one which can be run many
times. The later the incident is (the further from basic) the more
lightly it is run.

    There is no difference in the technology required to run a basic or
a later incident. It is only the number of times THROUGH that differs.
Basic is run through many times. A somewhat later engram is run through
a couple of times. Otherwise all engrams whether basic or not are run
exactly the same.

    Engrams are run to release charge from a case. Charge is not
released to cure the body or to cure anything physical and the meter
cures nothing. Charge is released entirely to return to a thetan his
causation over the time track, to restore his power of choice, and to
free him of his most intimate trap, his own time track. You cannot have
decent, honest or capable beings as long as they are trapped and
overwhelmed. While this philosophy may be contrary to the intentions of
a slavemaster or a degrader it is nevertheless demonstrably true. The
universe is not itself a trap capable only of degradation. But beings
exist who, beaten and overwhelmed themselves, can utilize this universe
to degrade others.

    The mission of engram running is to free the charge which has
accumulated in a being and so restore that being to appreciated life.

    All cases, sooner or later, have to be run on engrams, no matter
what else has to be done. For it is in engrams that the bulk of the
charge on the time track lies. And it is therefore those parts of the
time track called engrams which overwhelm the thetan. These contain pain
and unconscious-

                332 BOOK THREE

ness and are therefore the record of moments when a thetan was most at
effect and least at cause. In these moments then the thetan is least
able to confront or to be causative.

    The engram also contains moments when it was necessary to have moved
and most degrading to have held a position in space.

    And the engram contains the heaviest ARC break with a thetan's
environment and other beings.

    And all these things add up to charge, an impulse to withdraw from
that which can't be withdrawn from or to approach that which can't be
approached and this, like a two pole battery, generates current. This
constantly generated current is chronic charge. The principal actions
are:

    a. When the attention of the thetan is directed broadly in the
direction of such a track record the current increases.

    b. When the attention is more closely (but not forcefully) and
accurately directed, the current is discharged.

    c. When the basic on the chain is found and erased, that which
composes the poles themselves is erased and later incidents eased, for
no further generation is possible by that chain and it becomes incapable
of producing further charge to be restimulated. The above are the
actions which occur during auditing. If these actions do not occur
despite auditing, then there is no case betterment, so it is the
auditor's responsibility to make sure they do occur.

    As the time track is created by an involuntary response of the
thetan, it ~is~ and exists as a real thing, composed of space, matter,
energy, time and significance. On a level 8 case the time track is
completely submerged by charge even down to a total unawareness of
thought itself. At level 7 awareness of the track is confined by extant
charge to opinions about it. At level 6 charge on the track is such that
pictures of pictures of the track are gratuitously furnished, causing
delusive copies of inaccurate copies of the track. At level 5 charge is
sufficient to cause only inaccurate copies of the track to be viewable.
At level 4 charge is sufficient to obscure the track. At level 3 charge
is sufficient to wipe out portions of the track. At level 2 there is
only enough charge to maintain the existence of the track. At level 1
there is no

                R3R PROCEDURE 333

charge and no track to create it. All charge from level 1 and up to
higher states that is generated is knowingly generated by the thetan,
whose ability to hold locations in space and poles apart results in
charge as needful. This would degenerate again as he put such matters on
automatic, or began once more to make a time track, but these actions
alone are not capable of aberrating a thetan until he encounters further
violent degradation and entrapment in the form of implants. Aberration
itself must be calculated to occur. The existence of a time track only
makes it possible for it to occur and be retained. Thus a thetan's first
real mistake is to consider his own pictures and their recorded events
important and his second mistake is in not obliterating entrapment
activities in such a way as not to become entrapped or aberrated in
doing so, all of which can be done and should be.

    Engram running is a step necessary to get at the more fundamental
causes of a time track and handle them.

    So it is a skill which must be done and done ~well~.

    The prime source of ARC breaks in engram running sessions is
by-passing charge by time mishandling by the auditor. As a subhead under
this, taking and trying to run incidents which are not basic on a chain
constitute an error in time and react on the preclear.

    An ARC break-less session requires gentle accurate time scouting,
the selection of the the earliest timed incident available and the
accurate time handling of the incident as it is run.

    There are only a few reasons why some cannot run engrams on
preclears. These are:

    1. Q and A with the pain and unconsciousness of incidents

    2. Failing to handle the time track of the preclear for the preclear

    3. Failure to understand and handle time.

    2 and 3 are much the same. However, there are three ways to move a
time track about:

    a. By significance (the moment something was considered),

                334 BOOK THREE

    b. By location (the moment the pc was located some somewhere),

    c. By time alone (the date or years before an event or years ago).

    You will see all three have time in common. "The moment when you
thought . . ," "The moment you were on the cliff . . ," "Two years
before you put your foot on the bottom step of the scaffold," are all
dependent on time. Each designates an instant on the time track of which
there can be no mistake by either auditor or preclear.

    The whole handling of the time track can be done by any one of these
three methods, significance, location, time.

    Therefore all projectionist work is done by the time of
significance, the time of location or time alone.

    The track responds. Those auditors who have trouble cannot grasp the
totality and accuracy and speed of that response. The idiotic and
wonderful precision of the time track defeats the sloppy and careless.
They wonder if it went. They question the pc's being there. They fumble
about until they destroy their command over the time track.

    "Go to 47,983,678,283,736 years, 2 months, 4 days, one hour and six
minutes ago." Well, a clear statement of it, unfumbled, will cause just
that to happen. The tiniest quiver of doubt, a fumble over the millions
and nothing happens.

    Fumbled dating gets no date. One must date boldly with no throat
catches or hesitations. "More than 40,000? Less than 40,000?" Get it the
first read. Don't go on peering myopically at the meter asking the same
question the rest of the session. Accurate, bold, rapid. Those are the
watch words of dating and time track handling.

    In moving a time track about, move only the track. Don't mix it and
also move the preclear. You can say, "Move to . . ." You don't have to
say (but you can) "The somatic strip will move to . . . " But never say,
"~You~ will move to . . ." And this also applies to present time. The
preclear won't come to present time. He's here. But the time track will
move to the date of present time unless the preclear is really stuck. In
getting a preclear to present time say, "Move to (date, month and year
of PT)."

                R3R PROCEDURE 335

    In ~scouting~ you always use ~to~. "Move to . . ." In ~running~ an
engram or whatever, you always use ~through~. "Move through the incident
. . ."


¤Triple Flows¤


    A being has a minimum of three flows.

    By "flow" is meant a directional thought, energy or action.

    The three flows are
        inward to oneself
        outward to another or others
        crossways, others to others.

    Examples:

    Flow 1--to self, drinking
    Flow 2--self to another or others, pc giving them drinks.
    Flow 3--others to others, people giving other people drinks.

    Flow 1--to self, being hit on the nose.
    Flow 2--self to another, pc hitting somebody else on the nose.
    Flow 3--others to others, other people hitting others on the nose.

    Item example using a proper Dianetic item, a pain in the arm:

    Flow 1--to self, receiving a pain in the arm.
    Flow 2--to another, pc giving another a pain in the arm.
    Flow 3--others to others, other beings giving others a pain in the
arm.

    Notice that the direction of the flow does NOT change the item. Only
the direction changes.


¤Routine 3R Preliminary Step¤


    The R3R (Routine 3 Revised) preliminary step is done to ensure that
the correct incident chain is run on the pc for that pc.

    Many chains, locks, secondaries and engrams, are available on any
pc. But some of them are beyond the pc's reality and ability and some of
them are too featherweight to get any case gain.

                336 BOOK THREE

    The basic problem in starting a case on R3R is to run the pc on a
chain that will (a) improve the case, (b) hold the pc's interest, (c) be
within the pc's current ability to handle.

    Almost any pc from Case Level 7 upwards can run engrams if the exact
~chain~ necessary to resolve the case is established. This is
accomplished by an accurate assessment using a sensitive E-meter and the
following form and procedure.

    It does not matter if the pc begins on a chain of locks, secondaries
or engrams so long as running it does (a), (b) and (c) above. You do not
have to specify in R3R whether you are running engrams, secondaries or
locks. The word "incident" covers all.

    Also, it does not matter if the pc stays within this lifetime or
goes whole track so long as the assessed chain is followed and a basic
eventually discovered for it. The chain leads where the chain leads.

    Thus the result obtained in the preliminary step is used on and on
until an actual basic is reached. This may be fifty or more engrams run.

    When a basic is reached and discharged and the chain being run now
gives little or no TA action (or even free needle), a ~new preliminary
step is done~. But until that happens, this preliminary step is not
repeated with the other steps. Once it ~has~ happened, (a basic found
and run) however, a new preliminary step is done exactly as given here
for the first chain assessment.

    You find the chain.

    You run engram after engram on that chain (or lock after lock or
secondary after secondary).

    You find a basic.

    You run the basic thoroughly.

    With TA action now gone on the chain found you do a new preliminary
step.

    RULE: TA ACTION EXISTS ON THE CORRECT CHAIN.

    RULE: A CHAIN ONCE ASSESSED MUST BE FULLY RUN.

                R3R PROCEDURE 337

    RULE: TA ACTION CEASES ON A DISCHARGED CHAIN.

    RULE: A NEW ASSESSMENT IS DONE ONLY WHEN A CHAIN
IS DISCHARGED.

    RULE: ANY PROPERLY ASSESSED CHAIN WILL PRODUCE
TA ACTION.

    RULE: IF A CHAIN ASSESSED DOES NOT PRODUCE IMMEDIATE
TA ACTION WITH SKILLED R3R THE ASSESSMENT
(OR THE RESULTING QUESTION FORMED) IS INCORRECT.

    An assessment consists simply of calling off the items the pc has
given and marking down the reads that occur on the meter. The pc is not
required to comment during this action and it is better if he does not.

    This action is called "assessment for longest read." It is used
mainly in Dianetics.

    There are Scientology assessments which are differently done. They
are not used in Dianetics.

    In Dianetic assessment by longest read one uses these symbols:

    X - Didn't read
    Tick - Small jerk of needle
    sF - Small fall, (a quarter to half an inch)
    F - Fall (about one to two inches)
    LF - Long fall (two to three inches)
    LFBD - Long fall followed by a "blowdown" or TA motion downward.

    All falls are to the right. A "BD" is a tone arm motion to the left
made to keep the needle on the dial.

    The favored action for an item is an LFBD and if one item on the
list does so, that is it without any further assessment.

    The reason one assesses is that ~if an item does not read on the
meter when assessed it is beyond the pc's level of awareness~.

    It is very unwise and unsafe to try to run a somatic which has not
read on the list. It will be beyond the pc's reality and beyond his
awareness and will result in overwhelming him.

                338 BOOK THREE

    That an item reads guarantees that the pc will be able to confront
and erase the chain. So, that an item reads well is a guarantee that the
pc can handle it and will not get in too deep for him.

    The exception to this is a ~protest~ read. An item, possibly already
run, is seen to read. The pc frowns. He is protesting and the meter is
registering protest, not the item. One never runs a pc against this
protest. To do so will overwhelm him and give a bad result. A protest
almost never blows down the TA.

    To be ~sure~ that the item is right, one usually asks the pc if he
is interested in the item chosen.

    If the pc says no, he doesn't want to run it, this is a protest
read.

    One then picks the second-best reading item on the assessment
already done and checks that with the pc for interest. The pc will
usually be interested in it.

    The pc can almost always be counted on to be interested in any item
that gives an LFBD.

    One ~never~ simply asks the pc which item on the list he is
interested in as "an assessment" as it will be found the pc simply
chooses at random and may choose a null item. The result may be a very
unsuccessful session.

    An auditor may sometimes be astonished by what reads. The pc, let us
say, obviously has a broken leg but what reads is an earache. One runs
what reads, not what the auditor knows should be run. A "know best" in
an auditor can be a fatal fault.

    On a second or third assessment items which were at first null or
reading poorly will be found to "come alive" and read well. The pc, by
being audited has had an increase of ability to confront and, if the
auditing is standard, an increase in confidence. The result is that
items beyond his reach previously (and did not read well) are now
available and can be run easily.

    The E-meter measures the awareness depth of the pc. On things which
do not read on assessment you would find his reality poor. Things that
read well on assessment will be found to be things on which a pc has a
high reality and a high interest level.

                R3R PROCEDURE 339

    Only if pushed to audit without a meter could an auditor assess by
interest only. There is no real excuse for it if one has an E-meter.

    Auditing without a meter is a chancy activity.

    Good assessment by longest read is the best entrance to a successful
session.

    The same list will serve for the next item to be run and should be
used rather than just asking the pc.

    In all the years of auditing, assessing anything has been a weak
spot in general auditing.

    More goofy alterations can occur and more errors in this activity
than any other.

    In Standard Dianetics if you assess the wrong item or a wrongly
worded item the case won't run, the TA goes up or the TA goes down. High
TA (above 3.5) is a lot of mass coming in. Low TA (below 2) is
overwhelm.

    Bad TRs can cause low TA as the auditor is overwhelming the pc. Too
many times through without going earlier is the usual cause of these 4.5
to 5.5 TAs.

    But both high and low TA are in some degree caused by not quite
right assessment.

    Pictures going off (pc gets a black or invisible field) is also
caused by a wrong assessment.

    The whole subject of assessment means ~pick out the thing that will
run~. That's all one is trying to do.

    As I have never had the faintest trouble assessing anything or even
finding the right somatic with no meter at all, it is hard for me to
advise how to correct ~misassessment~ or assessment errors. It just
evades my reality. The whole subject is too easy.

    So my belief is that students try to put too much into it. They try
to get a pat-phrased question to ask like "What is the feeling?"

    They stare (TR-0) at the pc when they should be looking at the
meter. Try TR-0 on the meter!

    An old operating definition of ~assessment~ is:

    ~Assessment is done by the auditor between the pc's bank and the
meter. There is no need in assessing to look at the pc. Just note which
item has the longest fall or~

                340 BOOK THREE

~blowdown. The auditor looks at the meter while doing an assessment~.

    One is assessing for ~pains~, ~sensations~, ~unwanted emotions~,
~attitudes~. It can get so far out that the pc is made to say only
feelings like "a going in feeling" and never even mention a pain.

    There are so ~many~ signs and indicators that it is a wrong item
when it is that I can't see how it could be missed. On a wrong item the
pc has bad indicators, the meter doesn't read, there is no pc interest.
Wow. It's as obvious as a sinking ship.

    On a right item the meter reads well when the pc says it, the pc's
good indicators come in somewhat when it's announced, the pc is very
interested in running it. It's about as obvious as skyrockets.

    So just given these two descriptions of the reaction to a wrong item
and a right item I should think anybody could tell them.

    Rote procedure gets heavily in the road of a Dianetic assessment.
The pc gives a list, the auditor doesn't watch the reads and note them,
then the auditor commonly goes back to assess the list. By that time the
charge is off. He should have watched the meter in the first place and
taken that. Why all this assessing of the finished list? Of course when
you already have a list done by another with no reads marked on it, you
have to read it off and mark what reads. And using a list a second time
you have to read it off to the pc to see what reads.

    When a student demands a rote procedure for Dianetic assessment he
is asking for trouble and is trying not to understand.

    If the student simply understood that he was trying to find an item
that read well brought in moderate GIs and in which the pc was
interested and which was usefully worded and which would run, he would
have it made.

    ~But~ the auditor has to watch the meter and be sure he has one with
the pc's interest, worded so as to run into an engram chain.

    I've seen an incredibly botched up job on finding a somatic, done
this way. Pc listed, needle and TA all over the

                R3R PROCEDURE 341

dial. Auditor picked out four somatics. Wrote them down and called them
off. None read. The auditor then said the pc couldn't be audited on
Dianetics and should be sent for Scientology. ~Who~ is kidding who? The
somatics read like mad. There was even one with an LFBD. Yet the auditor
had to go into some goofy rote procedure or ritual and by it "discover"
there were no somatics.

    The errors in this operation of finding a somatic can be so corny
and so idiotic that I have to assume the auditor doesn't know or
understand what he's trying to do and doesn't even look at the meter
while he does it.

    Honest, this action of finding the somatic to run is ~so~ easy to do
that only overcomplication can block it.

    The auditor wants to know what attitudes, pains, bad feelings,
misemotions the pc complains of and out of these take the one that reads
best while the pc is saying it or it is being called off and which
brings in the pc's GIs moderately and in which the pc is interested. The
somatic ~must~ read.

    Now what's so hard about that?

    It requires that one look at his meter when the pc is giving it or
it is being talked about.

    Now and then the pc has a discreditable somatic and the auditor has
to coax the pc to give all.

    Now and then the pc says, "My lumbosis" and if you ran that or any
medical term you'd only get him in doctor's offices or in hospitals, as
it's a medical term, not a somatic.

    Evidently the student gets in such a sweat about finding a "right
item" that he goes up the spout on good sense.

    On Dianetic lists there can be a dozen items. It isn't trying to
isolate the mental troubles of the pc. A Dianetic list is simply the
pc's physical aches and pains. People are notorious for discussing their
aches and pains. Why is it so hard to find one that reads well on a
meter?

    Well, you have to watch the meter.

    That's probably the outness. Student auditors are so socially
adjusted they keep looking at the pc, maybe even trying to look pleasant
rather than trying to read a meter.

    I feel, in trying to communicate and teach how to locate what to
run, as if I am explaining where the floor is. And

                342 BOOK THREE

the people I'm explaining it to are wondering ~how~ you look at a floor,
what chant you intone while looking at a floor and what mathematical
equation you use to make sure it ~is~ the floor. It's that kind of a
thing. I say, "There's the floor. If you stamp on it, you will get a
sound." And guys think, "Well, maybe, but how loud a sound and do you
use the right foot or the left foot and if that's the floor I can't find
the ceiling because I have no sextant."

    All I'm trying to tell you is that when you are looking for a
somatic in the pc and hit it, the meter reads well, the pc has moderate
GIs when you tell him what it is you've chosen, he is interested and it
will run.

    And honest to Pete, that's all there is to it. And if somebody says
there's anything else he's trying to wreck a whole lot of auditors.

    I can't say it any plainer.

    It can occasionally happen that an auditor misses a read on an item
or question and does not run it as it "has not read." This can hang up a
pc badly if the item was in fact a reading item or question. It does not
get handled and exists in records as "no read" when in fact it ~did~
read.

    ~Therefore all Dianetic auditors whose items occasionally "don't
read" must be checked out* on this material~.

    These errors come under the heading of gross auditing errors as they
affect metering.

    1. An item or question is said to "read" when the needle falls. Not
when it stops or slows on a rise. A tick is always noted and in some
cases becomes a wide read.

    2. The read is taken when the pc first says it or when the question
is cleared. ~This~ is the valid time of read. It is duly marked (plus
any blowdown). ~This~ reading defines ~what~ is a ~reading item or
question~. ~Calling it back to see if it read is not a valid test~ as
the surface charge may be gone but the item will still run.

    3. An item does not have to read when the auditor calls it to be a
valid item for running engrams. The test is did it read when the pc
first said it on originating it or in clearing it.

    4. That an item or question is marked as having read is sufficient
reason to run it or use it or list it. Pc interest, in

                R3R PROCEDURE 343

Dianetics, is also necessary to run it, (except in the Drug Rundown),
but that it did not read ~again~ is no reason to not use it.

    5. When listing items the auditor must have an eye on the meter
~not~ necessarily the pc and must note on the list he is making the
extent of read and any blowdown and how much. ~This~ is enough to make
it a "reading item" or "reading question."

    6. An additional calling of the item or question to see if it read
is unnecessary and not a valid action if the item or question read on
origination or clearing.

    7. That an item is marked as having read on an earlier Dianetic list
is enough (also checking interest) to run it with no further read test.

    8. To miss seeing a read on an origin or clearing is a gross
auditing error.

    9. Failing to mark on the list or worksheet the read and any BD seen
during pc origination or clearing the question is a gross auditing
error.

    Auditors who miss reads or have poor eyesight should be tested and
should wear the proper glasses while auditing.

    The rims of some glasses could obstruct seeing the meter while the
auditor is looking at the worksheet or pc.

    If this is the case the glasses should be changed to another type
with broader vision.

    A good auditor is expected to see his meter, pc and worksheet all at
one time. No matter what he is doing he should always notice any meter
movement if the meter needle moves. Then even while writing he sees the
meter needle move as it is in his line of vision.

    Any and all confusions as to what is a "reading item" or "reading
question" should be fully cleaned up on any auditor as such omissions or
confusions can be responsible for case hang-ups and needless repairs.

    Any comment that an item or question "did not read" should be at
once suspected by a C/S and checked on the auditor.

    Actually nonreads, a nonreading item or question means one that did
~not~ read when originated or cleared and also did not read when called.

                344 BOOK THREE

    One can still call an item or question to get a read. That it now
reads is fine. But if it has never read at all, the item will not run.

    It is not forbidden to call an item or question to test it for read.
But it is a useless action if the item or question read on origination
by the pc or clearing it with him.

    This data, if not known, can cost case failures.


¤Null Lists in Dianetics¤


    It happens all too often in Dianetic auditing that:

    a. No further items on the assessment list read but,

    b. The pc still has these somatics.

    This is quite a problem. It cuts short the number of hours that can
be delivered and leaves an unhappy pc.

    But what do you know, the list isn't null. It is ~suppressed~ or
~invalidated~.

    Here is where the Dianetic auditor bridges over into Scientology, to
which this action properly belongs.

    However, the great importance of the problem of a null or apparently
dead list makes it necessary to teach the Dianetic auditor this
technique.

    Situation: No item on the health form or list now reads, one or more
have been run, the pc still has symptoms that are on the list. But they
won't read.

    Solution: The Dianetic auditor nulls by suppress "button" and if
needed, the invalidate button.

    This is normally called "getting in the suppress button" or "getting
in the invalidate button."

    It is called button because when you push it (say it) you can get a
meter reaction.

    All right, the list comes out all X--nothing reading.

    The auditor, watching the needle out of the corner of his eye and
also looking at the list (a trick you must be able to do so as never to
miss a read on the meter), nulls down the list on all unrun items.

    "On the item 'dizzy feeling,' has anything been suppressed?"

    "On the item 'painful head,' has anything been suppressed? (read)."

                R3R PROCEDURE 345

    Pc: "Yes, I suppress it all the time."

    Auditor: "Are you interested in running that item?"

    Pc: "Yes! I kept wondering why it never read."

    The auditor then runs R3R.

    In the case of ~invalidate~, if suppress doesn't read, one "puts in
the invalidate button."

    Auditor, reading an apparently null list:

    "On the item 'dizzy feeling' has anything been invalidated?"

    "On the item 'sore feet' has anything been Invalidated? (read)"

    Pc: "Yes, because it didn't read in the first place."

    Auditor: "Are you interested in running that item?"

    Pc: "Yes!"

    So the auditor runs R3R.

    When the pc suppresses or invalidates something, the read
~transfers~ to suppress or invalidate, whichever he did. Suppress or
invalidate now read, the item itself doesn't until one puts the button
(suppress or invalidate) in.

    ~Don't let a Dianetic pc off auditing just because his unrun list
items won't read on the meter~.

    Get in suppress and invalidate on the items as above.

    It is a rapid action, not two-way comm between items. You ask the
~meter~, not the pc.


¤Unreading Questions and Items¤


    Never list a listing question that doesn't read.

    These rules hold good for all lists, all items, even ~Dianetics~.

    A "tick" or a "stop" is not a read. Reads are small falls, or falls
or long falls or long fall blowdown (of TA).

    A preclear's case can be gotten into serious trouble by listing a
list that doesn't read or running an item that doesn't read.

    In a Dianetic "list" one is only trying to find a somatic or
sensation, etc., that will run. The item must read well. Or it won't
produce a chain to run. In actual fact the Dianetics list question does
usually read but one doesn't bother to test it.

                346 BOOK THREE

    But an item that doesn't read will produce no chain, no basic and
the pc will jump around the track trying but just jamming up his bank.

    The moral of this story is:

    ~Always TEST a listing question before letting the pc list~.

    ~Always MARK the read it gave (sF, F, LF, LFBD) on the worksheet~.

    ~Always test an item for read before running recall or engrams~.

    ~Always mark the read an item gave (sF, F, LF, LFBD) on the
worksheet~.

    The whole subject of "charge" is based on this. "Charge" is the
electrical impulse on the case that activates the meter.

    "Charge" shows not only that an area has something in it. It also
shows that the pc has possible ~reality~ on it.

    A pc can have a broken leg, yet it might not read on a meter. It
would be ~charged~ but below the pc's reality. So it won't read.

    ~Things that don't read won't run~.

    The case supervisor always counts on the ~auditor~ to test questions
and items for read before running them.

    The auditor, when a question or item doesn't read, can and should
always put in "suppress" and "invalidate"--"On this (question) (item),
has anything been suppressed?" "On this (question) (item), has anything
been invalidated?" If either one read, the question or item will also
read. The case supervisor also counts on the ~auditor~ to use suppress
and invalidate on a question or item. If after this there is still no
read on the question or item, that's it. Don't use it, don't list it. Go
to the next action on the C/S or end off.


¤Routine Three Revised (R3R) by Steps¤


    This is the designation for the principal process of Standard
Dianetics. It is the technique for running Engrams.

    The first thing the auditor does is to make sure the room and
session are set up. This means, in other words, that the room is as
comfortable as possible and free from

                R3R PROCEDURE 347

interruptions and distractions; that the auditor's meter and meter
shield are set up and that the auditor's report form and worksheets are
ready.

    The pc is seated in the chair furthest from the door and is asked to
pick up the cans (from now until the session ends the pc stays on the
cans).

    The auditor says: "This is the session" (Tone 40).

    The auditor then puts in the reality factor with the pc by telling
him briefly what he is going to do in the session.

    Preliminary step: Establish the type of chain the pc is to run by
assessment.

    Flow 1:

    Step One: Locate the first incident by the command: "Locate an
incident of another causing you . . ." (somatic or feeling assessed).

    Step Two: Date the incident. This is done by asking: "When was it?"
Take what he gives you. ~The pc must give a date, this is what turns on
the picture in many cases~.

    Step Three: Telling a pc to move to an approximate date he has just
given moves him wrong. So, move the pc to the incident with the exact
command: "Move to that incident."

    Step Four: Establish duration (length of time) of incident. Ask:
"What is the duration of the incident?" (An incident may be anything
from a split ~second~ long to 15 trillion, trillion years or more long).
Duration always turns on the picture. If it is omitted, the pc will run
black--no picture.

    Step Five: Move pc to beginning of incident with the exact command:
"Move to the beginning of that incident." Wait until meter flicks.

    Step Six: Ask pc what he or she is looking at with exact command:
"What do you see?" (If pc's eyes are open tell pc first: "Close your
eyes.")

    Acknowledge ~whatever~ pc says.

    Do ~not~ ask a second question, ever.

    Step Seven: Send the pc through the incident with the exact command:
"Move through the incident to a point (duration established in Step
Four) later."

    Step Eight: Ask nothing, say nothing, do nothing (except observe the
meter or make ~quiet~ notes) while pc is

                348 BOOK THREE

going through the incident. If the pc says anything at all, just
acknowledge and let him continue, using this exact command softly:
"Okay, continue."

    Do not coax, distract, or question pc during this period.

    Step Nine: When the pc reaches the end of the incident (usually pc
moves or looks up) say ~only~: "What happened?"

    Take whatever pc says, acknowledge only as needful. Say ~nothing~
else, ask ~nothing~ else. When pc has told little or much and has
finished talking, give him a final acknowledgment.

    In going through an incident the second time one ~does not~ ask for
date and duration again or any description.

    After the first time through an incident and when pc has recounted
it, the auditor:

    A. Tells pc: "Move to the beginning of the incident."

    B. "Tell me when you are there."

    Steps A and B can be done at one time. They will sound like one
sentence: "Move to the beginning of the incident; tell me when you are
there."

    C. When pc has said he is: "Scan through to the end of the
incident."

    D. "Tell me what happened."

    The second, third, etc., run through the same incident use the above
commands.

    After the second time through, find out if it is erasing or going
more solid. Ask: "Is the incident erasing or going more solid?"

    If it is erasing go through it a third time, etc., until it is
erased. Erasure is usually accompanied by a floating needle and a
cognition immediately afterwards.

    One does not need to ask "erasing/solid?" when he sees the TA rise
as obviously it (the incident) is going more solid. It is correct, the
auditor seeing the TA rise, simply to ask for an earlier incident and if
"No" then an earlier beginning.

    When a pc doesn't know if it's solid or erasing, it's time to look
earlier.

    If in answer to "erasing or going more solid?" the pc says it's
going more solid, or if he doesn't know, you ask for an earlier incident
on the same chain with the question:

                R3R PROCEDURE 349

    Step One A: "Is there an earlier incident of another causing you
(the exact somatic or feeling used in Step One).

    Then you go through Steps one to nine and A to D in the same way,
always going down the chain to an earlier incident whenever the incident
you are running is going more solid after the second time through.

    Sometimes when you ask for an earlier incident the pc will say there
isn't an earlier incident. In this case, the incident you have been
running may ~start~ earlier.

    You would therefore ask: "Does the one we are running ~start~
earlier?"

    If the pc says "Yes," then you give the command: "Move to the new
beginning of the incident."

    Then continue on to B, C, D and continue as usual.

    The important thing is to give the pc time to find the earlier
incident or the earlier beginning.

    If the pc can't find an earlier incident or an earlier beginning,
run the incident you were doing on A to D again.

    Step one and Step one A (going earlier) commands for flow 2 and flow
3 are:

    Flow 2:

    Step one: "Locate an incident of you causing
another . . ." (the exact somatic or feeling used in flow 1).

    Step one A: "Is there an earlier incident of you causing
another . . . ?" (the exact somatic or feeling used in flow 1).

    Flow 3:

    Step one: "Locate an incident of others causing
others . . ." (the exact somatic or feeling used in flow 1).

    Step one A: "Is there an earlier incident of others
causing others . . . ?" (the exact somatic or feeling used in flow 1).

    The item can be preceded by "a" or "an."

    Each of these Step one and Step one A commands are run on the full
verbatim 1 to 9, A to D steps as given herein.


¤Understanding R3R Commands¤


    A student auditor working on his Dianetics internship* was ordered
to study the Dianetic technical data (time track

                350 BOOK THREE

and engram running by chains). He read the data but had not studied it
vigorously enough and for ~application~.

    The supervisor worked with him covering technical data and ~Original
Thesis~.* During the course of this action many confusions (primarily
roteness) were handled. Among them were things like "What is the purpose
of Step 6 of R3R: "What do you see?'" He had previously thought it was
to "orient" the pc to the incident or some such but basically it came
down to the fact that he had never worked out the purpose of the command
as related to the mechanics of the bank and time track. After some
working he finally got the fact that command 4 (duration) is to turn on
the visio and that before moving the pc through the incident one would
have to know the pc had visio so he could move through. Conversely, if
the picture was not "turned on" then the duration would have to be
corrected. Another was the Step 3 command: "Move to that incident" on
which the intern thought that by repeating the auditing command when the
pc "couldn't get there" you would handle the time track. This of course
is failure to handle an origination and failure to handle time for the
pc. He finally realized that obviously the pc didn't have the correct
date in the first place and it is the auditor's action to find and get
the correct date and thus move the somatic strip to that incident.

    Each command of R3R was taken up and its purpose demonstrated out
against the basic definitions and mechanics of the time track. One other
thing discovered by this auditor was that command 9: "What happened?"
has a purpose of running out the locks created in present time, in
session, by virtue of the fact that you're reminding the pc of
secondaries and engrams right there! (This is covered in ~Original
Thesis~.)

    Another was the fact that in ~Original Thesis~, chapter "Exhaustion
of Engrams," it says, "the principle of recounting is very simple. The
preclear is merely told to go back to the beginning and to tell it all
over again. He does this many times. As he does it the engram should
lift in tone on each recounting. It may lose some of its data and gain
other. If the preclear is recounting in the same words time after time,
it is certain that he is playing a memory record of

                R3R PROCEDURE 351

what he has told you before. He must then be sent immediately back to
the actual engram and the somatics of it restimulated. He will then be
found to somewhat vary his story. He must be returned to the
consciousness of somatics continually until these are fully developed,
begin to lighten and are then gone." This of course totally invalidates
the use of a completely rote system and requires an understanding of
what is happening to the pc, bank, etc.

    Needless to say this auditor went through many changes, now feels in
comm with his preclears and not "stuck" to some rote procedure which
truly inhibits the real gains to be gotten from Dianetic engram running.


    As evidence to this action and its resultant gains in the auditor's
ability to audit the following is a brief description of a case he
audited ~applying~ real engram running and ~Original Thesis~ to this
case.

    "Case has run many hours of Dianetics with a hidden standard to do
with his hand. Has been trying since earliest Dianetic sessions to get
this handled. The somatic has been addressed by many different wordings
and many chains but had never blown yet chains had apparently gone to
end phenomena. The auditor was C/Sed to find the actual somatic and run
it out. It was found in session that the somatic had been run out to
"EP" so an L3RD was done. From the L3RD the auditor found it was one
incident in restimulation and proceeded to flatten the somatic chain
connected with it. During this the auditor on occasion had to correct
three dates and two durations but the spectacular part was pc began on
Steps 9 and D to say the same thing regarding incident each time. This
being indicative of pc running a memory record, auditor moves pc to the
~actual engram~, somatics intensify and then blow (for the first time)
pc exterior with VVGIs. Exam result is quite spectacular."

    All the above serves to once again validate the results of the
Dianetic materials when they are applied in full.


¤Some Important Rules¤


    Given a knowledge of the composition and behavior of the time track,
engram running by chains is so simple that

                352 BOOK THREE

any auditor begins by overcomplication. You almost can't get
uncomplicated enough in engram running.

    In teaching people to run engrams in 1949, my chief despair was
summed up in one sentence to the group I was instructing: All auditors
talk too much. And that's the first lesson.

    The second lesson is: All auditors acknowledge too little. Instead
of cheerily acknowledging what the pc said and saying "Continue,"
auditors are always asking for more data, and usually for more data than
the pc ever could give. Example:

    Pc: "I see a house here."

    Auditor: "Okay. How big is it?"

    That's not engram running; that's just a lousy Q and A.

    The proper action is:

    Pc: "I see a house here."

    Auditor: "Okay. Continue."

    The exceptions to this rule are non-existent. This isn't a special
brand of engram running. It is modern engram running. It was the first
engram running and is the last and you can put aside any complications
in between.

    The auditor is permitted ~one~ question per each new point of track
and that is ~all~. Right example:

    Auditor: "Move to the beginning of the 88 plus trillion year
incident." (Waits a moment.) "What do you see?"

    Pc: "It's all murky."

    Auditor: "Good. Move through the incident."

    ~Wrong~ example:

    "Auditor: "Move to the beginning of the 88 plus trillion year
incident." (Waits a moment.) "What do you see?"

    Pc: "It's murky."

    Auditor: "Can you see anything in the murk?" Flunk! Flunk! Flunk!

    The rule is ~acknowledge what the pc says and tell him to continue~.

    Then there's the matter of being doubtful of control. Wrong example:

    Auditor: "Move to yesterday. Are you there? How do you know it's
yesterday? What do you see that makes you think . . ." Flunk! Flunk!
Flunk!

                R3R PROCEDURE 353

    Right example:

    Auditor: "Move to yesterday." (Waits a moment.)

    "What do you see? . . . Good."

    Another error is a failure to take the pc's data. You take the pc's
data. Never take his orders.

    If the pc is a dub-in, you should be running the ARC processes not
engrams anyway as the case is too overcharged for engrams. If the pc
isn't a dub-in then the pc's data is quite reliable.

    What the auditor believes has little to do with the preclear's
reality. If a practitioner challenges or demands proof of a patient's
data the patient becomes ill--that is the bald fact of it. It's part of
the Auditor's Code.

    The reason the first Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation had
trouble was that its Board of Directors attempted to stop past lives
from being run.

    When a group seeks to forward only what is currently acceptable it
of course stalls all progress.

    Further it is dishonest to suppress or fail to reveal scientific
discoveries.

    Disagreeing with the law of gravity could give one some very bad
falls.

    Pre-Dianetic mental studies customarily threw out anything that did
not agree with their pet theories or would be "unpopular" with
authorities.

    Such was the dishonesty practiced in the humanities that the whole
field had fallen into brutal hands. Dianetics had to encounter the Dark
Age atmosphere which then prevailed, complete with torture and murder of
the insane.

    As far as ~past lives~ are concerned if you don't run mental image
pictures from past lives when they come up on a chain, the preclear will
not recover.

    A pathetic case of this occurred in early research. A girl crippled
by polio was able to throw away her crutches after my first session. And
would have become entirely well except that she recalled seeing and
hearing Lincoln give his Gettysburg address. Her mother condemned her
for such nonsense. The girl's lameness was confirmed and perpetuated by
this and by a psychotic father who raved at me for daring to suggest
such things. I didn't suggest anything. In

                354 BOOK THREE

auditing the girl she suddenly came up with being at Gettysburg
listening to Lincoln.

    Seems a bit cruel to condemn a young girl to a lifetime of lameness
just to satisfy a fixed idea.

    The ~wierd~ idea is that one only lives but once.

    Also, minimize a pc's dependency on a meter. Don't keep confirming a
pc's data by meter read with, "That reads," "Yes, that's there." Just
let the pc find his own reality in running an engram. All auditors talk
too much. You can date on a meter but only so long as the pc doesn't
cognite on the date. You can help a pc identify or choose an area of
track but ~only~ if he specifically asks you to.

    Example:

    Pc: "I've got two pictures here. Can you find out which one is the
earlier? One is of a freight engine, the other is a whole train."

    Auditor (on meter): "Is the freight engine earlier than the whole
train? Is the whole train earlier than the freight engine?" (To pc) "The
whole train reads as earlier."

    Now, however, if the pc has two facsimiles, your problem is only
that you've missed something.

    Rule: Whenever charge is missed the time track tends to group.

    This does not mean the auditor has to do something about it unless
the pc gets confused and ~asks for help~, at which time the ~only~
action is to spot on the meter what charge has been missed and tell the
pc.

    All Routine 3R ARC breaks, are handled the same way, an exact way.
There is ~no~ deviation from this.

    If the pc becomes critical of anything outside the engram (room,
auditor, Scientology, the technology) it is an ARC break. ARC breaks are
of greater and lesser magnitude ranging throughout the misemotional band
of the tone scale.

    We have several times traced the graves of pcs in a special project
and they usually came up correct. One pc was very upset to find his
friend had failed to erect the fitting paid for tombstone, substituting
a common slab, possibly to pocket the difference.

                R3R PROCEDURE 355

Some pcs have been so overwhelmed in the past by some great figure that
they go into his valence in that life. This often throws discredit on
past lives.

    I recall one girl who had been every famous figure in history who
when we got her in valence turned up to have been only a victim to them.
The great generals and politicians of history, it must be sadly remarked
aren't easily distinguished from mass murderers.

    But even famous figures are somewhere.

    Past lives as a subject is made distasteful, possibly purposely, by
some who, by fearing to have been a nobody and seeking status, talk
loudly to others about having been Napoleon, Julius Caesar and Brutus
all at the same time.

    In a society which tries to hide in the current identity or seeks to
mortalize everyone and make people only animals, the subject of past
lives can be a difficult one socially.

    The truth in auditing is, IF YOU DON'T RUN THE INCIDENTS
GIVEN BY THE PC HE DOESN'T GET WELL.

    One spectacular recovery of an insane woman occurred when she ran an
incident as a lion who ate her keeper. Freudian work hadn't been able to
crack the case. The alienist at the sanitarium kept her in with trying
to explain how it was all delusion (the current technique
pre-Dianetics). A Dianetic auditor found and ran it and she became sane
at once and stayed so.

    It is NOT the auditor's role to handle the philosophic or social
aspects of incidents. To chide a pc for having an anti-social engram or
a record of a crime or to challenge his data or refuse him his past life
will bar his road to recovery and is itself a crime.

    It will be found that Man is basically good. Only his aberrations
are bad. When you run out his engrams he becomes social and reverts to
being good.

    Auditing is auditing. Audit what the pc has to audit. Leave the
social aspects of the case to others. It's not the auditor's job.

                356 BOOK THREE

    The handling of ARC breaks ~always~ follows this rule:

    ARC Break Rule 1:

    If the pc ARC breaks, issue no further auditing commands until both
pc and auditor are satisfied that the cause of the ARC break has been
located and indicated.

    Do not issue more orders, do not run a process, do not offer to run
a process, do not sit idly letting the pc ARC break. Follow this rule:

    ARC Break Rule 2:

    When a pc ARC breaks or can't go on for any reason, do an ARC break
assessment and locate and indicate to the pc the by-passed charge.

    The only harm that can be done in R3R is issuing further orders to
the pc or trying to run something before the by-passed charge has been
located and indicated.

    Given this handling of ARC breaks and an exact adherence to the rote
of R3R and ~all~ former problems of engram running vanish!

    If you know old-time engram running, there is no attempt here to
invalidate you or that knowledge or make you wrong in any way. Those are
all ways to run engrams and gave you a better grasp on it. I only wish
to call to your attention that R3R is not old time engram running and is
not designed for any other use than freeing the spirit of man.

    Therefore, study and use R3R and ~don't~ mix it with any earlier
data on engram running. Anything you know about engram running will help
you understand R3R. But it won't help your pc if ~mixed~ in with R3R. I
couldn't put this too strongly. You'll trace any failure in the auditor
with R3R to:

    1. Inability to execute the auditing cycle

    2. Inability to run a session

    3. Failure to study and understand the time track

    4. Failure to follow R3R ~exactly~ without deviation

    5. Failure to handle ARC breaks as above

    6. Using R3R on lower level cases not prepared by pre-engram running
processes.

    Engram running by chains is designated "Routine 3R" to fit in with
other modern processes.

    It is a triumph of simplicity. It does not demand visio, sonic or
other perceptions at once by the pc. It develops them.

                R3R PROCEDURE 357

    The ordinary programming of the lowest level case would be reach and
withdraw processes, CCHs, repetitive processes, R3R.

    Many cases, even the Black V, can begin at once on R3R.

    So R3R ~is~ the fundamental bridge step to Clear and OT. And we're
going for Clear and OT.


¤Narrative Items¤


    A narrative item is one which will land the pc in a single incident
for which there is no chain.

    Flagrant example: "The time the horse Baldy dumped me in the
Potomac."

    Obviously there was only one such incident. If it doesn't F/N, where
are you going to go with R3R? No chain.

    Example: "When my mother spanked me." One incident. No chain.

    Example: "A feeling like catching my hand in a 322 IBM computer on
March 3 last year." Only one incident. No chain.

    Example: "Like being bitten by a dog." Several examples on a chain
but the ~somatic~ he is trying to get rid of has a basic on it of being
tortured.

    Narrative chains are by repeating story, by incident description.
These can be of excessive length.

    There may be 40 billion times his shoe pinched.

    Example: "Feeling like a shoe pinching me." The chain is endless. On
the same somatic list was "A painful foot." This, being a somatic,
permits you to get to a basic.

    Example: "Feeling like my parents were cross with me." There may be
seven thousand such incidents. You never get to basic.

    Narratives can be run. But now and then there is only one incident
and it never arrives at any basic.

    Or there are so many similar incidents you go on for days!

    The breakthrough came in assessing only somatics, sensations,
emotions, attitudes.

    There are two types of chains--(1) story or narrative, (2) feelings.

                358 BOOK THREE

    The feeling chains (pain, soreness, physical sensation) are the ones
that relieve what's wrong with the pc. You can audit for a long time on
narrative or story incidents without relieving any somatics.

    Narrative items can give you trouble in R3R.

    Somatics, sensations, emotions, attitudes as R3R items not only give
you no trouble to audit but deliver the goods.

    A sore arm chain can include incidents such as:

    1. being hit by a tree
    2. run over by a carriage
    3. being wounded in a duel
    4. being hit by a stone axe.

    If "sore arm" is the item assessed (a somatic) then you get all four
incidents listed.

    Suppose you assess 3 "being wounded in a duel," as the item. It's a
narrative item because it describes the incident. So you run 3 only,
never get to 4 and leave the pc with a sore arm.

    He's trying to get rid of a ~sore arm~, not a duel.

    Get it?

    A narrative item is often run to run out the physically painful
experiences the person has just undergone, accident, illness, operation
or emotional shock. This erases the "psychic trauma" and speeds healing
to a remarkable degree.

    The commands for narrative R3R are:

    Flow One: "Locate the time when you had/were . . . (brief statement
of incident)."

    Flow Two: "Locate a time you caused another to have/to be . . .
(incident)."

    Flow Three: "Locate a time others caused others to have/to be . . .
(incident)."

    For secondaries it would be:

    Flow One: "Locate the time when you lost a/your . . .  (item)."

    Flow Two: "Locate a time you caused another to lose a . . . (item)."

    Flow Three: "Locate a time others caused others to lose a . . .
(item)."

    ~Always run narrative incidents TRIPLE flow as above~.

                R3R PROCEDURE 359

    The earlier command is: "Is there an earlier similar incident?"

    In doing R3R it is necessary that (a) one chooses things the pc is
interested in and (b) one does not force a pc to run things he is
protesting being run on.

    If you ask if there is an earlier incident and the pc says "no" you
do not just walk off from the one he was just running. You send the pc
through it again and it will erase.

    If you do sloppy R3R and do one thing after another without getting
an F/N or an erasure, you will get the pc stuck up on the track. You
complete each chain to F/N or erasure.

    If a LOCK F/Ns you can get earlier incidents on the same chain until
the pc acutally runs the engram or chain of engrams.

    While it is not always safe to pass an F/N and go earlier to the
real engram and erase it, a pc who is only F/Ned on locks will get the
engram keyed-in again later. The somatic may return unless engrams are
run to erasure.

    An R3R session can be safely ended on a cognition and good
indicators such as a cheerful, happy pc.

    This doesn't mean the end of all Dianetic auditing. In the next
session another assessment will turn up more unwanted feelings.

    Dianetics is ended off only when a pc has become well and happy and
remains that way.


¤Erasure¤


    Now and then a pc does not understand that he is supposed to be
erasing a ~picture~ and only goes far enough to erase the somatic. The
Auditor says "Is ~it~ erasing?" The pc can't feel the somatic so he says
"It's gone." Auditor is puzzled by no F/N, but buys it.

    What you want to know as an auditor is "Is the ~picture~ erasing?"
You can use that line to check, but not habitually.

    Erasure depends to some measure on the pc getting to the ~beginning~
of the incident. Sometimes the pc keeps starting a bit late in the
incident and so does ~not~ get an erasure.

                360 BOOK THREE

    If you assess an item like "dizziness after an operation" and try to
run it, the pc will bog utterly as the whole operation precedes the
somatic called for and not only won't erase but also won't show as a
picture.

    Trying to run a somatic like "my mother hitting me" is a narrative
incident not a somatic. It won't erase because you can't go earlier on
the somatic as it's not named. There's probably a whole chain on "a
stinging face" and chains are connected by somatic, not narrative or the
same people or incident type. ~Feeling~ makes the chain. Only chains of
feelings (pains, sensations, misemotions, etc.) uniformly go down to a
basic that will erase.

    If you run a lock, secondary or engram through ~twice~ and it does
not erase, you ask for an earlier similar incident related to the
somatic being handled.

    If a mental image picture goes more ~solid~ on the second pass
through, an earlier similar incident must be found.

    Eventually you will find a basic incident that will erase. It will
be the earliest on the chain.

    Follow the somatic, not the narrative content.

    In handling an assessed head pain you ask for "an earlier head
pain."

    Don't ask for narrative chains such as "an earlier fight with your
mother."

    The rule is invariable--~if it isn't erasing or is going more solid
after twice through get an earlier incident relating to the assessed
somatic and run it~.


¤Rising TA¤


    In running R3R when the pc's TA is rising after two runs through,
the indication is that there is an earlier incident (or in rare cases,
an earlier beginning).

    One does not need to ask "erasing/solid?" when he sees the TA rise,
as obviously it (the incident) is going more solid. It is correct, the
auditor seeing the TA rise, simply to ask for an earlier incident and if
"no" then an earlier beginning.

    The exception is the low TA (below 2.0). If the TA is let us say at
1.6 and rises to 1.8 during or after the second run

                R3R PROCEDURE 361

through, the incident may well be erasing as below 2.0 is abnormal. It
will come above 2.0 only when the chain is erased. So one ~does~ ask for
"erasing/ solid?" and carries on as usual with R3R when the TA is below
2 but rises.


¤Grinding Out Engrams¤


    Now and then an auditor encounters the phenomenon called (since
1950) ~grinding~.

    ~Grinding~ means going over and over and over and over a lock,
secondary or engram without obtaining an actual erasure.

    The sense of the word comes from the action of using an emery wheel
on a hard substance. The substance doesn't get much smaller or thinner
no matter how long it is done.

    The reason grinding occurs is that the incident is too late on the
chain. There are earlier incidents.

    It is a highly undesirable action. A Dianetic auditor who puts the
pc through an incident four or five times without erasure or appreciable
reduction is encountering "grinding." He should ask the pc to see if
there isn't something earlier with a similar somatic.

    We have encountered two cases who were "OT VI" who also got into
grinding without there being anything earlier. In both these cases, they
did not want a session and were only going through it to be obliging.
Both of these "OTs" had skipped some of their grades. The proper action
would have been to review their grades, the grade known as OT III was
certainly out. When a person gets above Clear, oddities can be expected
to occur when you try to run Dianetics on them. If they really haven't
made all their grades, however, and are physically ill, the correct
action is to do all possible to handle their case by standard Dianetics
and then rehabilitate or get done all the rest of the grades. What has
happened here is that they were using Scientology to escape an
uncomfortable body that should have been straightened out by Dianetics
in the first place. The "out grade" is in fact Dianetics, failure to use
it before going on to Scientology.

    You can therefore expect some of these Scientology cases who are
"OT" but haven't really made it, due to out

                362 BOOK THREE

Dianetics, to run very well on Dianetics by the book. The action is to
handle their physical complaints with Dianetics and then rehabilitate or
get done all the Scientology grades, being watchful for grades not done
at all.

    Some of these "OT" flubs, however, can be expected to "grind" and to
fail to erase engrams. They will not have wanted a session in the first
place and need a Scientology review with particular attention to
"withholds" and thereafter a complete review of all grades, particularly
completely skipped "OT grades."

    Possibly a pc who does not go down the somatic chain but who skips
from one somatic to another could also get into grinding.

    A pc not put through each incident on a chain twice before going
earlier could get into grinding. The pc who is run through each incident
once only before being sent earlier will certainly fail to get off
enough charge to get earlier.

    The pc who is stubbornly refusing to go into any past lives will
certainly get into grinding as they seldom reach basic on any chain.

    There are two extremes a Dianetic auditor can go to on the subject
of erasure.

    A. He can grind and grind and grind (ABCD, ABCD, ABCD, ABCD, on and
on) with the TA going up up up and never once tell the pc to go earlier.

    B. He can watch the TA come down to between 2 and 3 and go loose on
the last incident run, ask the pc "erasing or solid?" get a noncommittal
answer and send the pc earlier. He can keep sending the pc earlier and
earlier on another chain without ever noticing he's finished the first
chain.

    These are the two extreme cases. In Case A it is ~obvious~ from TA
rise that the chain has an earlier incident. In Case B it is obvious
from the TA that the chain erased.

    In A the auditor is preventing the pc from going earlier when he
should.

    In B the auditor is forcing the pc to go earlier when he shouldn't.

    In both cases the auditor hasn't a clue of what an engram chain is.

                R3R PROCEDURE 363

    It is marvelous how auditors demand "the exact phrase" to use as an
effort to avoid having to really understand what he is doing in
auditing.

    If an auditor hasn't a clue about what he is doing, then a thousand
goofy outnesses will keep cropping up, each one requiring a special
instruction. After a while you get a text weighing one ton, and all
because the auditor didn't grab the basic definitions in the first
place.

    An auditor who will do either A or B above has not grasped that an
engram chain is held in place by the basic for that chain and that basic
is the ~first time~ and that the clue to erasure is unburdening down to
first time and erasing first time and that all picture chains are there
because the first time is there.

    The auditor assumes one ~always~ asks "solid or erasing." Or that
one always does only what the pc says. Or some such consideration.

    I would never ask "solid or erasing" if I saw the TA start to climb,
I would know the TA measured mental mass and that it was accumulating
and wouldn't erase. I'd just ask for an earlier incident.

    Honest, it's awfully easy.

    A very odd outness an auditor will encounter when he is so dedicated
to the exact words is the fast pc who erases before he can tell about
it. Along about number three of R3R the TA blows down and the needle
F/Ns.

    An auditor who knew his business by understanding would ask "Did it
erase?" of course. The pc would say "It vanished," and VGIs would come
in.

    A fast-running pc on a light chain can occasionally blow an engram
by inspection. If it was basic for that chain, one would be committing
the crime described in B above. The pc is likely to go into another
chain on a heavy protest.

    So you see, there's no substitution for actually ~understanding~
what's going on.

    There's the pc, there's the bank, there's the meter needle, there's
the meter tone arm, there's the auditor, there's the procedure, and
there's the report. That's all the parts there are to a session.

                364 BOOK THREE

    When one ~understands~ each one, one can audit. When one doesn't
understand some part of any of the above, he will require unusual
solutions.

    Anything truly powerful is truly simple.

    So an auditor who goofs is being complex and hasn't understood
something about one of the major parts named above.

    I once saw a goofed up session that went like this:

    Pc: "It (the engram) happened every day for three days."

    Auditor: ABCD.

    Flunk. The auditor was so deficient in knowing about chains and
'first time' that he didn't tell the pc to go to the first day's engram
but let the poor pc flounder in day three! And so the chain did not
erase and the pc hung up in it.

    If the rule of 'first time' is really understood, one would realize
a lot of things, even that the pc was beginning an incident halfway
through it and hadn't begun to run the beginning of it so of course, no
erasure. If this happened on basic . . . "There's no earlier incident."
(TA high.)

    Auditor: "Does the one we're running start earlier?"

    Pc: "Hey, yes it does."

    Auditor: "Move to the new beginning of the incident . . ."

    Yoicks, an erasure!

    This is no invitation to depart from procedure. It's an invitation
to see procedure as an ~action~, very precise, capable of being
understood and done, not a rote chant.

    That's the procedure--not do the commands rhyme!


¤High TA in Dianetics¤


    In Scientology a high TA is always an overrun.

    In Dianetics it means ~an engram too late on the chain to erase is
in restimulation~.

    A Scientology auditor "rehabilitates" overruns.

    A Dianetic auditor cures high TA by finding what engram (lock or
secondary) is in restimulation (active). This will show up as a ~pain~,
~sensation~, ~misemotion or other present time feeling~ the pc has. In
short, just by finding the

                R3R PROCEDURE 365

somatic by list and assessing for longest read and running R3R you can
cure a high TA.

    You handle a TA that goes up during a session by completing the
chain exactly as in R3R.

    The same action you do for R3R ~also~ cures the high TA.

    By running a pc through only once each time instead of twice you
leave a later incident too charged for the pc to see an earlier
incident.

    By trying to erase the somatic only, not the picture ("pc no longer
has somatic") you can leave the picture partially there.

    There can be an infinity of wrong ways but only one right way and
the right way is R3R by the book.

    A high TA (3.5 or above) is simply the E-meter's reaction to
increased mass. Thus in the presence of mental mass as contained in
mental image pictures, the tone arm of the E-meter rises.

    When you restimulate an engram, the E-meter's current flow has more
trouble getting through the pc and the TA rises.

    When the engram (or lock or secondary) is "keyed out" (moved away)
the TA comes down and the meter needle will float.

    If you find a long chain with many engrams on it and run a late
engram the TA goes up. As you go earlier, and eventually find basic, the
TA comes down and when you erase the basic engram the TA will come down
to between 2 and 3 and the needle will float.

    Old disproved theory pre-Dianetics was that the E-meter reacted to
sweat on the hands but of course a person would have to sweat and
"unsweat" to make the meter behave as it does. And the idea of
"unsweating" would be ridiculous. Palms of the hand do not go wet-dry
with enough rapidity to account for meter reaction up and down.

    When you run several engrams through once or several somatic chains
without erasing any, you pile up too much mass and the TA will go high
and stick.

    Even if nothing is done to repair this, the pc will destimulate (the
pictures will drop away) in from three to

                366 BOOK THREE

ten days. However, it is a very poor show of auditing to do R3R other
than exactly by the book. It is very easy to do it exactly right. The
drill is simple. If done exactly right the result is good and
invariable.

    When a pc has a high TA (3.5 or above) ~after~ having one or more
sessions, it is ~obvious that the earlier chains found were not erased~.

    What makes a TA ~high?~ A TA, in Dianetics, is high ~only~ for one
reason. One or more engram chains are ~in restimulation~.

    A high TA equals mental energy mass.

    Engrams have mass in them even when they are pictures. The figures
in the picture, the scenery, and the picture itself have mass.

    It is electrical mass.

    It registers as a TA above 3.

    To say that the TA is 3.3 and the picture was erased is silly. That
.3 is indicating that part of the mass is still there.

    This is often also true above 2.0.

    When the meter needle is not floating the TA is registering ~mass~.
Mental mass.

    So when you see a TA going up, up, up you know the picture isn't
erasing but is getting more ~SOLID~.

    The solidness is visible right on the TA dial.

    So to ask for a rerun when you've already ground and ground and the
TA has been up up up is silly.

    The meter is already telling you there is an earlier incident, as
the one the pc is in is getting more solid and is not erasing.

    In Scientology a high TA means "overrun." The Dianetic auditor,
however, doing Dianetics does not "rehabilitate" the F/N. He is handling
why the TA does go high: mental mass consisting of pictures. A
Scientology overrun goes by an F/N. In the F/N movement the mass moved
away. It didn't erase. If you keep on running the same action the mass
moves in again. The Scientology auditor recovers the moment it moved off
by "rehabilitating the point of release." The Dianetic auditor in doing
Dianetics finds the incomplete chain, carries it to basic and gets it
~gone~ forever.

                R3R PROCEDURE 367

    If the C/S cannot find the incomplete chain by folder inspection he
orders "Assess the pictures or masses pc has touched in life or auditing
and have been left unflat, get its somatic, run R3R." He could also
order an L3RD be done.

    A low TA (below 2) means the pc is overwhelmed and has retreated.

    If you chop up a pc with bad TRs you may see his TA go below 2.

    Also some incidents force a pc below 2. But when they are erased the
TA comes back up to F/N.

    If you think you have had an erasure but the TA is below 2 at the
time of F/N, then you haven't erased any chain.

    A discharged meter or one with its trim set incorrectly or a faulty
meter or electrodes will give the auditor or examiner wrong reads.

    One should check his meter before session for full charge and get
the pc to squeeze the cans to see if ~he~ is registering on the meter.


¤Overt-Motivator Sequence¤


    There was an important discovery made in 1952 on the subject of
engrams which did not get included in "Book One," ~Dianetics: The Modern
Science of Mental Health~.

    This was the "overt-motivator sequence of ENGRAMS."

    AN OVERT, in Dianetics and Scientology is an aggressive or
destructive ACT by the individual against one or another of the eight
dynamics (self, sex/family, group, mankind, animals or plants, mest,
life or the infinite).

    A MOTIVATOR is an aggressive or destructive act received by the
person on one or more of the dynamics.

    The viewpoint from which the act is viewed resolves whether the act
is an overt or a motivator.

    The reason it is called a "motivator" is because it tends to prompt
that one pays it back--it "motivates" a new overt.

    When one has done something bad to someone or something, one tends
to believe it must have been "motivated."

                368 BOOK THREE

    When one has received something bad, he also may tend to feel ~he~
must have done something to deserve it.

    The above two points are true. The actions and reactions of people
on the subject are often very falsified.

    People go about believing they were in an auto accident when in
actual fact they caused one.

    Also people may believe they caused an accident when they were only
~in~ one.

    Some people, on hearing of a death, at once believe they must have
killed the person even though they were far away.

    Police in large cities have people turn up and confess to almost
every murder as a routine.

    One doesn't have to be crazy to be subject to the overt-motivator
sequence. It is not only used on him continually by others, it also is a
basic part of his own "case."

    There are two extreme stages of overt-motivator phenomena. One is a
person who gives up only motivators (always done to him) and the other
is a person who "has done only overts" (done to others).

    In running an engram you will find:

    1. All overt engrams that hang up (won't audit easily) have ~also~ a
motivator engram as the same or different incident

    2. All motivator engrams that hang up have an overt engram in the
same or different incident.

    The two ~types~ of engrams then are OVERT engrams and MOTIVATOR
engrams.

    Example of overt engram--SHOOTING A DOG.

    Example of motivator engram--BEING BITTEN BY A DOG.

    The rule is that the subject matter MUST BE SIMILAR.

    They can be different points in time.

    When you can't run out (erase) a dog bite engram, why then you find
the "shoot dog" engram.

    ~Psychosomatic ills or aberrations that do not resolve by running
one side, usually resolve by finding and running the other~.

                R3R PROCEDURE 369

    When you can't erase an engram about shooting a dog, why then
there's a "bitten by dog."

    It's all very simple really. There are always two sides to the coin.
If one won't run, you try the other.

    Finding the basic engram on a chain also applies to finding the
basic overt or basic motivator engram.

    Engrams then hang up (won't run out) when:

    a. The other type needs to be run and

    b. The one found has earlier engrams on it.

    An "engram" sometimes didn't exist. A pc can be trying to run being
run over by a car when he never was.

    What needs to be done, when the incident won't run, is get the pc's
incident of running over somebody.

    It also works in reverse. A pc can be trying to run an engram of
running over somebody when he was in fact only run over himself and
never did run over anyone.

    So BOTH engrams can exist and be run or only one side exists and can
be non-factual and won't be run because only the ~other~ side exists.

    It is easy to visualize this as a matter of flows. An overt of
course is an outflow and a motivator is an inflow.

    It may never have been said that secondaries always sit squarely on
incidents of actual pain and unconsciousness.

    Also secondaries can exist on the overt-motivator sequence pattern
just as in engrams.

    This is the cause of frozen emotions or "unemotional" people. Also
some people complain they can't feel anymore.

    This works out by overt-motivator sequence. A person in grief over
loss (grief is always loss) who then can't run it has ~caused~ grief and
that overt-secondary can be run.

    Also a person misemotional over causing grief has been caused grief.
It works both ways with ALL POINTS ON THE TONE SCALE.

    The last is a newer discovery and wasn't known to early
Dianeticists.

    The overt-motivator engram phenomena did not receive adequate
dissemination.

    It is basically Dianetic engram running that resolved all cases in
the end so one had better be pretty good at auditing engrams and
secondaries, motivator and overt both.

                370 BOOK THREE


¤Dianetics--Triple Flow Action¤


    Dianetics, including Dianetic assists, are to be run by ~triple
flows only~.

    Running Dianetic singles is ~forbidden~.

    The reason for this is to be found in the basic technology of the
overt-motivator sequence.

    A pc who only runs motivators (done to him only) will worsen. You
will see him becoming more and more critical. He may blow or become ill.
He will commit overts (harmful acts) on himself, the church or others.
And he will continue going downhill until you get ~his~ overts, i.e.,
what ~he~ has done.

    In Dianetics the first flow, F1, is the ~motivator~ chain (done to
him).

    The other two flows, F2 and F3, are the ~overt act~ chains.

    Running only singles, i.e., the motivator (done to him) chains could
go on and on without lasting gains and could wind up with a pc getting
sick, committing overts or blowing.

    Therefore, the overt chains, flows 2 and 3, must also be run before
going on to the next item.

    Dianetic pcs who have had only Dianetic singles run in the past
should have flows 2 and 3 run on those items.

    The following rules are in effect:

    1. NEVER RUN DIANETIC SINGLES

    2. ALWAYS RUN DIANETICS BY TRIPLE FLOWS--ALWAYS, ALWAYS.

    Wherever single flow Dianetics is mentioned, the statement is
revised according to the following rule:

    ~Dianetics is run by triple flows only. Dianetic singles is
forbidden and if done will be considered gross out tech~.

    The item must be made plural on flow 3 when one is running triples,
i.e., "pain in the head," as an item on flow 1 and flow 2 becomes "Pains
in their heads" on flow 3.


¤Full Flow Dianetics*¤


    Where a case has only been run on single flow Dianetics (flow 1) one
goes back to the first Dianetic item ever run of which record can be
found and does F1, F2, F3 in that order.

                R3R PROCEDURE 371

    To C/S a case for ~triple~ Dianetics it is best to first lay out a
Scientology repair, making sure the case is flying, then list out the
items already run on single and triple. Then get them run so that all
~three~ flows are complete on each item in sequence from first to last.

    This includes any former practice items, drugs or any other engram
running. These, like Dianetic items, are listed in their correct
sequence of former running.

    Then the missing flows are run.

    A rehabilitation step of the flows already run is not necessary.
This rehab of a flow already run to EP is usually used only when there
is question about its having gone to F/N, Cog, VGIs.

    In C/Sing for ~triples~ one completes any flow of an item found that
did not F/N. This is indicated on the item list.

    All former Dianetic items ever run are listed and what flows have
been run on them and to what end phenomena.

    If any auditor has a poor record of getting Dianetic results, of
bogged flows, etc., he needs a retread. His drills and TRs are out or he
is committing Gross Auditing Errors.

    Dianetics gives remarkable results only when flawlessly done.

    The commands must be precisely given and ~all~ commands 1-9, A-D are
used. It is NEVER shorted "because the pc did it."

    It should be realized Dianetics is its own field of C/Sing. This
remains the same in ~triple~ Dianetics.

    ~Triple~ Dianetics, including the re-run actions, produces some very
startling new gains.

    Well done Dianetics always has produced fine results.

    ~Triple~ Dianetics almost doubles the gain.

    Any and all Dianetic remedies and general technology remain in full
use. They are not changed at all. Only ~triple~ flows ~are~ added in
each case.

    It is mandatory that one does not audit three flow items until one
has brought ~all~ earlier Dianetic items into three flows.

    On a case where only flow 1 (single) has been run, you don't
suddenly run a triple (F1, F2, F3) until one has run the

                372 BOOK THREE

earliest Dianetic item ever run (or that can be found) on Dianetic
triple and then on forward on triple.

    By auditing additional flows while earlier items remain single, one
restimulates the missing flows and stacks them up as mass. They can make
a pc uncomfortable until run.

    All the missing flows (that were not run) are still potential mass.

    This mass restimulates like something too late on the chain when a
flow not run on earlier items is run on later items.

    Auditing itself is a sort of time track. The earliest session blows
the later sessions.

    Before running triple Dianetics one makes a table of earlier items
run. Like this:


                ¤Full Flow Table¤


                              ~Flow Prev-
~Date~     ~Item~             iously Run~ ~Must Run~
2/3/62     Guf shoulder        F1          F2, 3
3/3/67     Gow in foot         F1          F2, 3
30/4/67    Chow in Chump       F1          F2, 3
29/9/68    Anger               F1, 2, 3
           Peeved              F1, 2, 3
4/10/69    Feeling numb        F1, 2, 3
9/10/70    Feeling of goof     F1, 2, 3
10/10/71   Dianetic Assist on
           head                F1          F2, 3


    F1 is FLOW ONE, something happened to self.

    F2 is FLOW TWO, doing something to another.

    F3 is FLOW THREE, others doing things to others.

    Standard R3R commands are used on triple Dianetics.

    The question will come up, do we triple narrative items or multiple
somatic items?

    The test is, did the flows already run F/N when they were originally
run? If they did, include them. If they didn't run exclude them.

    This does not mean you omit everything that didn't run.

    While auditing this FULL FLOW DIANETICS you will find various chains
that did not F/N when originally run.

                R3R PROCEDURE 373

    These are included and should be concluded to F/N. This means one
has to find out if they bypassed the F/N, went too early, jumped the
chain, etc. Usually an L3RD assessed on that faulty action will give the
answer. It is too easy to make these old flubbed chains F/N unless you
work at it too hard. Usually the reason they didn't is visible on the
old worksheet. The auditor forgot to ask for earlier beginning or
by-passed the F/N or jumped the chain or tried to run it twice
forgetting he'd run it before. Corny errors.

    The result of doing a FULL FLOW DIANETIC ACTION on a case is quite
spectacular. The shadowy remains of somatics blow, mass blows and the pc
comes up shining.

    When doing triple Dianetics on Clears and OTs (and a very few
others) it may be found that many chains are now missing or are just
copies of the original. Don't be disturbed. Pc says they're gone now
they're gone. Just F/N the fact and carry on with the next flow or item.


¤Filling in Undone Flows in Dianetics¤


    Steps:

    0. R-factor: "We are going to fill in the undone flows in your
Dianetic auditing."

    1. Clear the word "flow."

    2. Have a list of all items not triples, in the order they were run,
early to late, stating what flow run, and what flow(s) not. Indicate any
bogged items clearly. (Some preclears have been run on narrative items
or multiple somatics in the past. You triple these items only if the
flow or flows already run F/Ned when run. If they didn't, exclude them.)
Be sure bogged items were not corrected in a later session.

    3. Starting from the first item run on the pc (earliest) that has
missing flows, run the missing flow or flows. Always run F1, 2, 3 in
that order exactly. Use L3RD if any trouble.

    4. Clear R3R command number 1 of the first undone flow, in sequence
(i.e., Flow 2, if only Flow 1 has been done).

    5. Run that flow R3R to EP, L3RD any bog.

                374 BOOK THREE

    6. Clear R3R command number 1 of the next flow (F3).

    7. Run that flow R3R to EP, L3RD any bog.

    8. Then verify erasure of the flows that were run by saying,
"According to session records, flow (1, 2, 3) (item) erased." It will
F/N. If no F/N, or BIs, do an L3RD on it.

    If any of the flows already run were bogged flows and not corrected,
L3RD them. Don't try to verify erasure.

    9. The auditor continues as above to completion of all flows of all
previous R3R items.


¤Triple Reruns¤


    LAW: WHEN ONE OR MORE OF THE THREE FLOWS
OF AN ITEM OR GRADE ARE LEFT UNRUN; WHEN USED IN
LATER PROCESSES THE EARLIER UNRUN ONES
RESTIMULATE AND MAKE MASS.

    This tells you that high TAs, heavy pressures and even illness can
come from bypassed flows.

    Example: Dianetic singles have been run on seven items. Now the
auditor begins to run new items triple without running triple on the
already run items. The result will be seven unrun flows 2s and seven
unrun flow 3s. These will restimulate and form mass and bypassed charge.

    Example: Now let us say that Dianetics was all run single and grades
were run triple. This will restimulate the Dianetic chains F2 and F3.

    ~Any later grade run with more flows than used in earlier actions
can throw the earlier unflat flows into restim, pile up mass giving high
TA and bypassed charge (BPC) giving ARC breaks~.

    Thus high TAs have three principal sources:

    1. Overruns

    2. Auditing past exterior

    3. Earlier unrun flows restimulated by those flows used in later
actions.

    There are other minor ones such as drug background, illness, etc.,
as per hi-low TA assessment.

    One must NOT recklessly or continuously rehab a past major action.
This causes overrun. The thetan is placed at the ~end~ of the incidents
not yet in restimulation or run and the bank gets more solid.

                R3R PROCEDURE 375

    The whole trick of this universe is contained in thetans copying or
picturing incidents and then getting stuck in the later portion of them.

    "Incidents" is the keynote. A thetan is incident hungry.

    This is what traps him.

    For some reason he has to be at the earliest end of incidents to
erase them. The later he is in incidents and the later he is on the
track the more solid he is.

    This also applies to the "auditing time track."

    By omitting things like flows on the auditing time track, the thetan
thus becomes massy.

    The whole theory of the Exteriorization Remedy is based on having
gone out (later) ~after~ he went in (earlier). So exteriorizing can
stick him. The remedy is done by a Scientology review auditor to permit
further auditing. They exteriorize of course when the bank is handled.

    When flows of items are bypassed and then later restimulated by
auditing them, mass occurs.

    When doing additional flows on earlier items or processes, one must
~also~ check or rehab those flows marked as run to F/N in worksheets.

    This again will leave unflat flows and BPC unless it is done.

    And if it is overdone it will raise the TA by overrun.

    So if one had a case that had single Dianetics and was later run on
triple for new items (but the singles not done into triple) one would
have to RUN FIRST the missing unrun flow or flows and then ~check~ the
first single F1 for flatness, then check other previously run flows.

    The rule is run the previously unrun one or ones first to get charge
off, then verify or run the ones listed as run already.

    Then one would do the same for the next item. Run the previously
unrun flow or flows and then verify or run those listed as already run
to be sure they F/N.

    ~All~ items, in chronological sequence, and ~all~ processes, would
have to run triple.

    ~It would be a waste of time now to run only singles~.

    So all C/Ses and auditing actions are "rehab or run F1, F2, F3" when
getting in all flows on things run to date.

                376 BOOK THREE

    Get in all flows from the beginning. Bring ~all~ his auditing up to
triple.

    If the pc is not in trouble, his best bet is to get on up the grades
to Expanded OT III.

    If he ~is~ massy and is having trouble the best bet is to FES, list
the items and grades and do a Full Flow action from the beginning of his
auditing, raising them all to triple.

    The auditor getting in triple flows can also ARC break the pc by
failing to verify if the previously run flows are flat. All the auditor
wants is to see them F/N on the command. If they don't he runs them.

    Sometimes when he has "run them" again he finds they are being
overrun or run twice and has to rehab them by finding this out. The pc
sometimes doesn't know until he actually starts to run them. Then he
finds they are already run. The clue to this is a climbing TA. If the TA
goes up, get off that flow and rehab it.

    Example: Pc at first thinks "pain in shoulder" F2 was never run.
Starts to run it. TA goes up. Auditor must pull him off of it by finding
out if it is being run twice and rehab it to F/N.

    The moral in all these reruns is don't firefight, keep an L3RD list
handy and use it.

    The results of putting in all flows on a pc are fantastic.

    Getting an All Flows Rundown done correctly gives one all the latent
gain the pc has been begging for.

    Program it right.

    C/S it right.

    Audit it right.


¤Rehabilitating Chains¤


    One handles a Dianetic chain that, according to a previous
worksheet, erased by saying, "According to session records, (flow
direction) (item) erased." That's all. One does not say, "Did the chain
giving others a headache erase?" One does not run it again to find out.
One does not run a single command "to see if it F/Ns again." One can
say, "Do

                R3R PROCEDURE 377

you agree that the chain giving another a headache erased?" But the more
you ask the pc to look for an erased chain the more messed up things
will get. It isn't there. But the auditor by his action can imply it
~should~ be there or ~might~ be there. A totally wrong approach would be
"Look around your bank and see if what isn't there anymore isn't there."

    Dianetics is NOT Scientology. A Dianetic chain is ~not~ a release.
If you try to use Scientology rehab tech on a Dianetic chain, you have
had it. It isn't a "release" (which is a key-out). A Dianetic chain is
an erasure. You can't rehab erasures with "How many times?" etc.

    The test of this is the doing. If you try to use Scientology rehab
on Dianetic chains, the PC MIGHT TRY TO FIND SOMETHING. This causes him
to key-in other unrun or similar items.

    It is a dangerous action at best to try to handle old erased chains.
The best you can do is to tell the pc what the old worksheet said. If no
worksheet exists leave the already erased flows alone!

    Many times, a folder error summary will give a flubbed chain and
then fail to note it was repaired in the next session!

    A C/S and auditor would have been pretty irresponsible to just go on
auditing past flubbed chains.

    The only safe way to handle some previous flubbed chain is to:

    a. Verify in the folder if it was repaired

    b. If still unrepaired assess the L3RD on it and handle according to
the L3RD.

    Using the new L3RD is a Dianetic action.

    L3RD has its own directions. Questions not marked with directions
are used to indicate the fact. This can amount to two-way comm as the pc
chews it over. But L3RD where marked is handled by Dianetics actions.

    Example: "earlier beginning" reads. You can't just say "the incident
had an earlier beginning" and you can't say, "Tell me about the earlier
beginning." The pc will go up the wall. There'll be no F/N. You have to
use R3R and get him to the earlier beginning and then run it and if it
still doesn't erase, get him to an earlier similar and erase that.

                378 BOOK THREE

    L3RD is a Dianetics list.

    Overruns are demonstrated by a rising TA.

    If as you seek to get in Full Flow Dianetics (FFD), the pc's TA
begins to average higher, overrun is occurring.

    Example: While doing FFD pc's TA has been riding at 2.2 and F/Ns.
After a new FFD action it begins to ride at 2.5 and F/Ns. Something is
being overrun. Find it and indicate it. And cease to stir the bank up so
much! The fault is going over items already run.

    In doing a Full Flow Table you often find that the same or similar
items have been run in the past. Sometimes you find that a previous
attempt to run the item a second or third time has resulted in an ARC
break, the reason for which was never detected.

    The right action is to note the session date it was ~first~ run and
just tell the pc "Feeling surprised was run three times. On (first date
it was erased) it was erased. When later run it was an overrun." This
tends to blow the later charge laid in by trying to run the same item
again.

    It sounds so strange that erased chains can be overrun. But it is
true. What happens is that pcs try to cooperate and put something there.

    The action of a quarrel between an auditor and a pc is called a
firefight.

    Restimulating earlier unrun engrams or overrunning chains upset a
pc. The best action, as soon as a pc is disturbed, is to do an L3RD fast
and handle what reads the way it should be handled according to the
L3RD.

    The wrong way is to argue or try to go on.

    The pc does NOT know what it is. He just feels awful. He tries to
guess. He will ARC break or get sad if the auditor continues.

    The correction action is an L3RD.

    If the pc remains ARC broken, try L3RD again, particularly the
~whole~ L3RD.

    A fully genned in auditor, well-crammed, well-drilled, well-skilled,
can be trusted with Dianetic triples. Auditors not so handled can get
pcs into serious trouble with these things.

                R3R PROCEDURE 379

    A safe course is to use triples on new "never audited before" pcs.
Those begun on triples, continue to use only triple flows.


¤Dianetic TRs¤


    A student auditor may think he knows his commands. When he is
auditing a doll he can do it. When confronted by a live pc, he needs to
know the commands so well that pc randomity does not throw him off the
right command.

    I have therefore developed four Dianetic TRs. They are TR-101, 102,
103, and 104.

    When a student fails to get a good result we (1) ask the pc what he
did, (2) send the student back to training, (3) send the pc to review,
(4) send the student to review, (5) get the student corrected on what
was learned he did wrong from the pc and, (6) get the student drilled on
TRs 101, 102, 103 and 104.

    We tolerate no flubbed sessions.

    If a pc suffers because of a flub, we boost him way up with review
as a case.

    If a student auditor flubs we handle him as a case and retrain.

    All this has been subjected to a lot of research and proof.

    And what do you know! We get 100 percent training wins and 100
percent Dianetic session wins!

    No failed auditors, no failed pcs.

    Planet, here we come!


¤Practical Drills¤


    Practical drills are introduced throughout the book. Their purpose
is to improve the quality of auditing by familiarizing the auditors with
the exact procedure of each auditing action through the use of drills.

    Most of the drills are done within the basic format of the
bull-baited and unbull-baited drills as outlined here. However each
drill has its own training stress, position, etc. These should be
totally drilled out as you reach them in the book.

                380 BOOK THREE

    Simply start with the first actions and apply the drills
unbull-baited and bull-baited until you are thoroughly familiar with
each separate auditing action, and can apply it flawlessly, even with
distractions.

    If a student has trouble on a drill, find out whether the student
has a misunderstood or has skipped a gradient and handle either or both
with standard study tech. This can lead back to outnesses and
misunderstoods on auditing basics such as TRs, the auditing comm cycle,
codes or scales as well as earlier drills. Whatever it is, find it and
handle it thoroughly. ALWAYS COACH ON A GRADIENT, and build them up to
get them tough.

    ~NOTE:~ Fruit words are inserted in the place of dates and
durations, etc., in the commands and answers so that no coach
restimulation occurs.

    Format for Unbull-baited Drills

    Name: Auditing On a Doll Unbull-baited.

    Commands: As for each separate process.

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to be able to coordinate and
apply the commands and procedures of each separate auditing action with
the actual doingness of auditing.

    Positon: Student seated at a table with E-meter, worksheets,
auditing forms and lists as needed. In the chair opposite the student is
a doll occupying the position of the pc. (During checkouts the coach is
seated or standing beside the auditor. He does not take the position of
the doll.)

    The most common errors made by student auditors are forgetting the
commands during session and misusing command sequence or procedure or
doing odd things because they get nervous. The following drills are
designed to handle this. The drills must be thoroughly done.


¤TR-101¤


    Name: R3R to a Wall (TR-101)

    Commands: R3R commands including earlier incident and earlier
similar commands.

    Position: Student auditor seated facing a wall.

                R3R PROCEDURE 381

    Purpose: To get the student auditor able to give all R3R commands
accurately, in correct order without hesitation or having to think what
the next command should be.

    [+] Training Stress: This drill is not coached. The student auditor
sits facing a wall with a copy of the R3R commands in his lap. The
student gives the commands, in order, to the wall maintaining good TR-0
and TR-1. When the student auditor falters or is uncertain of the next
command he rereads the commands from the book then continues to give the
commands to the wall. When the student auditor can confidently give all
the commands accurately without any slightest comm lag, he gets a
checkout.


¤TR-102¤


    Name: Auditing a Doll (TR-102)

    Commands: All R3R commands and standard Dianetics procedure.

    Positon: Student auditor seated at a table with E-meter, auditor
report forms, and worksheets. In the chair opposite him is a doll
occupying the position of the pc.

    Purpose: To familiarize the student auditor with the materials of
auditing and co-ordinate and apply the commands and procedures of
Standard Dianetics in an auditing session.

    Training Stress: This drill is not coached. The student auditor sets
up the E-meter and worksheets exactly as in a session. He starts the
session and runs a complete Standard Dianetics session on the doll
keeping full session admin and using all standard procedures of
Dianetics.

    The drill is passed when the student can do the drill flawlessly
with good TRs 0-4, correct procedure and commands, without comm lags or
confusion and can maintain proper session admin, including worksheets,
auditor's report form, and summary report.


¤TR-103¤


    TR-103 is done between the student auditor and a doll, with a coach
sitting beside the student auditor.
--------------------------------------------------

[+] When doing this drill ensure you (give to the wall) the steps one to
nine, A to D and step one A (earlier similar command) for all four
flows.

                382 BOOK THREE

    The purpose of this drill is to give the student auditor total
certainty on the R3R procedure, handling the meter and the
administration at the same time.

    This is done in the drill by the coach following this gradient:

    1. The coach gives the student auditor some "items" to assess on the
doll--these must not be real somatics; but for example: apples, pears,
lemons, etc. to avoid restimulation.

    2. The coach has the student do a proper assessment on the doll,
coach indicating reads and interest. The student auditor applies
standard data on assessment and finds ~the~ item to run.

    3. The coach has the student do a standard rundown of R3R to erasure
of the "chain"; the coach answering the questions, carrying out the
commands for the doll. The coach does not use ~actual~ time units giving
date and duration on Step 2 and 4, but gives for example "15 beans" as a
duration. This is to avoid any chance of "running" the coach in this
drill by moving his time track with the commands.

    The coach creates "situations" by giving answers like: "solid--but
can't see anything earlier" or "it's all gone--TA 5.6," etc.

    4. When the student auditor can handle any situation to the coach's
satisfaction, the coach now calls command numbers, letters or situations
at random for the student auditor to handle to make the student auditor
totally certain on all the commands and actions.

    The commands do not have to be carried out or answered by the coach
here, but the coach can call a new number or letter or situation
immediately after the last command has been given by the student
auditor. If the coach does not call out a new number or letter, the
student auditor just continues down the procedure from the last command.
If the coach doesn't call a new number or letter, he of course answers
the question or carries out the command instead to keep the drill
~real~.

    Flunks are given in this drill for failure to do proper assessment,
failure to give correct commands with certainty

                R3R PROCEDURE 383

or failure to handle a situation. Out TRs, comm lags, etc. are of course
immediately flunked.

    This drill is passed when the student auditor can do these steps
flawlessly.


¤TR-104¤


    TR-104 is done between the student auditor and a "Pc/bull-baiter,"
with the coach seated beside the student auditor. In other words, three
persons are present in this drill.

    The purpose of this drill is to train the student auditor to deliver
a standard session, with standard procedure, using standard commands,
without session additives, and to train the student auditor to apply TRs
0 to 4 in the R3R procedure, here having a "real" pc, E-meter and admin
handled with skill.

    The drill's purpose is achieved by the following gradient:

    1. The coach gives the student auditor items to assess on the
pc/bull-baiter--same as in TR-103.

    2. The coach has the student auditor do an assessment on the
pc/bull-baiter, coach indicating the reads--pc/bull-baiter the interest.
And the student auditor finds ~the~ item to run.

    3. The coach has the student do a complete rundown of the "chain" to
erasure, using R3R procedure.

    The purpose of the pc/bull-baiter is to be a ~dummy pc~ and to make
the drill a "real" session.

    The pc/bull-baiter is to answer the auditing questions (still not to
give time units), and to carry out the commands. Doing this he can enter
commands, originate troubles or gains, be tricky, etc. But he must never
lose sight of the data on coaching, especially "coach with reality."
This drill trains the student auditor to handle a Dianetic session!

    The coach still creates the situations, as in TR-103.

    Stress is put here to train the student auditor to have his TRs 0 to
4 ~in~ on the pc/bull-baiter.

    4. When the student auditor has done a complete and successful
rundown of the chain to the coach's satisfaction,

                384 BOOK THREE

the coach now calls command numbers, letters or situations at random, as
in TR-103, only difference now that the commands have to be carried out,
the question answered, before coach calls a new number, letter or
situation. If the coach does not call a new number or letter after the
last command has been carried out or answered--the student auditor
continues down the procedure from the last command.

    Flunks are given in this drill for failure to do proper assessment,
failure to give correct commands with certainty, or failure to handle a
situation. Hesitation, stumble on commands, comm lags and ~out TRs~ are
of course flunked instantly.

    The student auditor is passed when he can do the above flawlessly.

    These are ~the~ drills that train the student auditor to handle all
the elements in a session, so be exact and be real, your next step being
auditing itself.

    TR-104 has been found in some cases to have been done wrongly. TRs
2, 3 and 4 were missing with the student auditor's attention only on the
coach and not keeping TRs in on the "bull-baiter."

    Full TRs 0 to 4 are kept in by the student auditor on the
pc/bull-baiter. The student gets his questions answered or command
carried out, acknowledges execution, for example. Otherwise TR-104
becomes completely unreal.

    If the student auditor is not making the grade he is returned to the
earlier TR that is out.

    Further, if the coach does not call out a number, the student
auditor simply continues on with R3R procedure, giving the next command
in sequence.

    The above applies also to TR-103.


¤Clearing Commands¤


    Failure to clear up all the words in the commands with the preclear,
can cause you to get reads on items that aren't valid.

                R3R PROCEDURE 385

    The rules of clearing commands are:

    1. Always have a good dictionary in the auditing room. Have a copy
of the ~Scientology Dictionary~ and any other materials necessary to
define Dianetics and Scientology terms. If the pc's native language is
not English, have a dual dictionary for that language and English. A
simple grammar book may also be required. For a foreign-language case
one should ~also~ have a dictionary of the foreign language ~itself~.
For example, English "apple"--looks in English-French, finds
"pomme"--Iooks in French dictionary to define "pomme." So for the
foreign-language case two dictionaries are needed--(1) English to
foreign language, (2) foreign language itself.

    2. Clear the commands (or questions or list items) by first clearing
in turn ~each word~ in backwards sequence of the words in the command.
(For example, if command is "Do fish swim?" clear "swim" then "fish"
then "do"). This prevents the pc starting to run the process by himself
while you are still clearing the words.

    3. That a ~word~ reads when clearing an assessment or listing
question does not mean that the ~question~ has read. Misunderstood words
read on the meter.

    4. F/Ns obtained on clearing the ~words~ does not mean the ~process~
has been run.

    5. Next, clear the command itself. Auditor asks the pc: "What does
this command mean to you?" If it is evident from the pc's answer that he
has misunderstood a word as it is used in the context of the command:

    a. Reclear the obvious word (or words) with the dictionary.

    b. Have him use each word in a sentence until he has it. (Clear all
definitions of a misunderstood word.)

    c. Reclear the command.

    d. If necessary, repeat Steps 2 and 3 to make sure he understands
the command.

    e. Under no circumstances is the auditor to evaluate for the pc and
tell him what the word or command means.

                386 BOOK THREE

    6. You clear the first command that you are going to run, then run
it. Then clear the second command and run it, etc. Don't clear more than
one command at a time.

    7. When clearing the command, watch the meter and note any read on
the command.

    8. Have the pc on the cans throughout the clearing of the words and
commands except when the pc is doing demos as needed. The auditor holds
the dictionary for the pc.

    9. As it is difficult to clear all the words of a correction list on
a pc over heavy by-passed charge, it is standard to clear the words of
rudiments very early in auditing and to clear an L3RD ~before~ running
R3R. When the need for the correction list arises one does not then need
to clear all the words as it has already been done, thus it can be used
when needed without delay.

    ARC breaks and lists should be word cleared before a pc gets into
them and should be tagged in the pc folder on a yellow sheet as cleared.

    10. Do not reclear all the words of assessment lists each time the
list is used on the same pc. Do it once, fully and properly the first
time and note clearly in the folder, on a yellow sheet for future
reference, which of the standard assessment lists have been cleared.

    11. These rules apply to ~all~ processes, and assessments.

    Any violation of full and correct clearing of commands or assessment
questions, whether done in a formal session or not, is an ethics
offense.

    ANY AUDITOR FAILING TO CLEAR EACH AND EVERY WORD
OF EVERY COMMAND OR LIST USED MAY BE SUMMONED
BEFORE A COURT OF ETHICS.

    The charge is OUT-TECH.


¤Clearing Lists and R3R¤


    A great many people can't go into Dianetics at all. They can't run
an engram at all.

    That is uniformly one of two things: It is ~drugs~ or the ~commands
have not been cleared~.

    This is very interesting to you, that ~failures to clear up all the
words in the commands with the preclear, and the~

                R3R PROCEDURE 387

~failure to clear every isolated different word in the list, including
the tiny little words ("is," "the," 'from," "such"), can cause you to
get reads on the items the preclear himself has given you, that aren't
valid~.

    Now it is ~not~: Do you know what this word means? You ask: ~What is
the definition of . . . ?~

    They can't give it to you? Have your stuff right to hand. Look it
up.

    Have your metering perfect and all the rest of that, but clear up
those words and you'll get the preclears that fail.

    The following is a list of the words in R3R procedure and the L3RD.


A              can            earlier        happened
abandoned      causing        else           have
accept         chain          emotion
actions        chains         end            implant
after          changed        engrams        in
all            changing       erasing        incident
an             charge         exterior       incidents
and            close          eyes           incorrect
another        command                       Int RD
answer         commands                      interiorization
are            connected      false          into
ARC break      confused       feel           invalidated
assessment     continue       field          invisible
audited        constantly     first          is
auditor        correct        flow           it
at             could          flubbed        item
attitude                      F/N (floating
                                  needle)
               date                          jumped
basic          death          for            just
be             demanded       found
been           Dianetic       from           late
before         didn't                        later
beginning      distracted     go             list
black          do             going          locate
by             drugs          gone
by-passed      duration       got            mass

                388  BOOK THREE

me              paid          see            twice
medicine        past          sensation      two
messed          persistent    should
misassessment   picture       shouldn't      up
misrun          pictures      similar        upset
missed          place         solid
misunderstood   point         something      was
more            pressure      spot           went
move            prevented     stopped        were
                problem       stuck          what
new             protest       suppressed     when
no              protesting                   while
not                           taken          with
nothing         real          tell           withhold
                really        than           wording
of              reason        that           wrong
off             recall        the
okay            refused       there          you
old             restimulated  this           your
on              restimulation thing
one             run           things
or              running       through
other                         time
others          same          to
over            saying        too
overrun         scan          trouble


    Note that some of these words have several senses, all of which
would have to be cleared.

    ~It isn't the hard words, it's the stupid ones~.


¤L3RD--Dianetics and Int RD* Repair List¤


    This list includes the most frequent Dianetic errors.

    A high or low TA and a bogged case can result from failures to erase
a chain of incidents.

    ~Do not attempt to repair a chain or engram without using this list~
as it can have different or several errors.

    ~Remember to clear each word on this list. If a question reads and
the pc says he doesn't understand it, clear it and reassess~ (don't
explain it and take it as it read on a misunderstood not on a fact).

                R3R PROCEDURE 389

    ~Running preclears on Dianetics without a full and complete Dianetic
C/S 1 indoctrination is a foolish action~.

    ~Take any read found to F/N by full repair of it per the
instructions~.

    1. There was an earlier similar incident.__
        Indicate it, flatten the chain.

    2. There was no earlier similar incident.__
        Indicate it. Determine if the chain is flat or if
        the last incident needs to be run through again.
        Complete the chain to F/N by indication or
        send to a Scientology Review Auditor.

    3. There was an earlier beginning.__
        Indicate it. Handle with R3R and complete
        the chain.

    4. There was no earlier beginning.__
        Indicate it. Complete the chain with R3R
        ABCD on last incident if unflat.

    5. An F/N was indicated too soon.__
        Indicate it. Flatten the last incident.

    6. An F/N was indicated too late.__
        Indicate it. Spot the flat point,
        indicate the overrun. Scientology
        Review Auditor if necessary.

    7. An F/N was not indicated at all.__
        Indicate it. Spot the flat point,
        indicate the overrun. Scientology
        Review Auditor if necessary.

    8. There was no charge on an item in the first place.__
        Indicate it, and that it shouldn't have been run.
        Scientology Review Auditor if necessary.

    9. Jumped chains.__
        Indicate it. Reorient to the original chain,
        spot flat point and indicate the overrun or
        flatten the chain. Send to Scientology
        Review Auditor if necessary.

                390 BOOK THREE


    10. Flubbed commands.__
          Indicate it, earlier similar to F/N.

    11. Didn't have a command.__
          Indicate it, earlier similar (E/S) to F/N.

    12. Misunderstood on the command.__
          Find it and clear it.

    13. Incident should be run through one more time.__
          Indicate it. ABCD on the incident,
          flatten the chain.

    14. Too late on the chain.__
          Indicate it. Get the earlier similar incident and
          complete the chain with R3R.

    15. Incident gone more solid.__
          Indicate it. Check for earlier incident or
          earlier beginning and complete the chain.

    16. Stopped running an incident that was erasing.__
          Indicate it. ABCD on the incident and erase it.

    17. Went past basic on a chain.__
          Indicate it. Scientology Auditor
          if necessary.

    18. An earlier misrun incident restimulated.__
          Indicate it. Find out what it was and
          do an L3RD on it.

    19. Two or more incidents got confused.__
          Indicate it, sort it out with an L3RD on it.

    20. An implant was restimulated.__
          Indicate it, if no joy do an L3RD
          on the time of the restimulation.

    21. The incident was really an implant.__
          Indicate it or L3RD on it.

    22. Wrong item.__
          Indicate it was a wrong item and that all other
          actions connected with it were wrong. If any
          difficulty, send to a Scientology Review
          Auditor.

                R3R PROCEDURE 391

    23. Not your item.__
          Indicate it, E/S to F/N.

    24. Not your incident.__
          Indicate it, E/S to F/N. L3RD if any trouble.

    25. Same thing run twice.__
          Indicate it. Spot the first flat point,
          indicate the overrun. To Scientology
          Auditor if any difficulty.

    26. There was a wrong date.__
          Indicate it. Get the correct date and
          flatten the incident if unflat.

    27. There was no date for the incident.__
          Indicate it. Get the date and flatten
          the incident if unflat.

    28. It was a false date.__
          Indicate it. Get the correct date
          and flatten the incident if unflat.

    29. There was an incorrect duration.__
          Indicate it. Get the correct duration
          and flatten the incident if unflat.

    30. No duration was found for the incident.__
          Indicate it. Get the duration and flatten
          the incident if unflat.

    31. There was a false duration.__
          Indicate it. Get the correct duration
          and flatten the incident if unflat.

    32. An earlier Dianetic upset was restimulated.__
          Locate what it was, indicate it.
          Sort it out with an L3RD if necessary.

    33. An earlier ARC break on engrams was
          restimulated.__
          Indicate it. Sort out the ARC break,
          or send to Scientology Review
          Auditor if necessary.

                392 BOOK THREE

    34. There was an ARC break in the incident.__
          Indicate it. Flatten the incident if unflat.
          Handle the ARC break. Scientology
          Review Auditor if necessary.

    35. You were protesting.__
          Indicate it, clean it up E/S to F/N.

    36. Auditor demanded more than you could see.__
          Indicate it, E/S to F/N. To Scientology
          Auditor if necessary.

    37. Auditor refused to accept what you were
          saying.__
          Indicate it, E/S to F/N. To Scientology
          Auditor if necessary.

    38. You were prevented from running an incident.__
           Indicate it, E/S to F/N. Flatten the incident if
           unflat. To Scientology Auditor if any difficulty.

    39. You were distracted while running an incident.__
           Indicate it, E/S to F/N. Flatten the incident if unflat.
           Scientology Auditor if necessary.

    40. Audited over an ARC break           __
                        Problem             __
                        Withhold            __
           Indicate it and handle the out rudiment.
           Do not pull withholds before the engram
           or chain is repaired or it will mush engrams.

    41. An item was suppressed.__
          Indicate it. Get the suppress off E/S to F/N
          then run or flatten the item.

    42. An item was invalidated.__
          Indicate it. Get the invalidation
          off E/S to F/N, then run or flatten the item.

    43. An item was abandoned.__
          Indicate it, get the item back and run or
          flatten it.

                R3R PROCEDURE 393

    44. The wording of the item was changed.__
          Indicate it. Get the correct wording and
          give it to him. Flatten it if unflat.

    45. Stuck picture.__
          Indicate it. Do an L3RD on it. You can also
          unstick it by having him recall a time before it
          and recall a time after it. If necessary,
          to Scientology Auditor.

    46. All black.__
         Spot the black field or picture.
         Get the correct duration.
         If no go, L3RD on it.

    47. Invisible.__
          Spot the invisible field or picture.
          L3RD on it.

    48. Constantly changing pictures.__
          Indicate there was a misassessment
          and a wrong item was taken off the list.
          Get the correct item and run it,
          or L3RD on that session.

    49. There was a persistent mass.__
          L3RD on it, or to Scientology auditor.

    50. There was trouble with a pressure item
          or pressure on an item.__
          L3RD on it, or to Scientology Auditor.

    51. You went exterior.__
          Indicate it, rehabilitate. If TA high as a result
          of this send to a Scientology C/S if preclear
          hasn't had an Interiorization Rundown.

    52. Your Interiorization Rundown was messed up.__
          Indicate it; if TA high send to Scientology C/S.
          If TA okay, to Scientology Review auditor to clear up
          any misunderstoods on interiorization,
          exteriorization, etc.

    53. Audited over drugs or medicine.__
          Indicate it. L3RD on that time, then verify all
          chains to ensure they erased.

                394 BOOK THREE

    54. A past death restimulated.__
          Indicate it, if it doesn't blow run it out.

    55. There was nothing wrong in the first place.__
          Indicate it. Continue the action you were on.

    56. The real reason was missed.__
          Indicate it. Locate the real reason and handle.
          To Scientology auditor.

    57. Something else wrong.__
          Locate what it is and sort it out.
          To Scientology Review Auditor.


¤Practical Auditor Drill¤


    Name: L3RD

    Position: Same as basic drill.

    Purpose: To teach the student auditor to do an L3RD flawlessly with
TRs and excellent metering.

    Training Stress: The student auditor uses an actual L3RD form in
doing this drill bull-baited, but uses the prefix "In apples . . ."
rather than a regular prefix. The coach as always answers with fruit
answers, and as on other listing drills squeezes the cans to make reads.
The coach indicates an F/N with his index finger. Flunks are given for
out TRs, incorrect procedure or out admin. The drill is passed when the
student does this auditing action flawlessly.

    Steps:

    1. Read through the entire L3RD and, with your dictionary and using
the glossary at the back of this book, clear any words you don't know as
you go along.

    2. Read through the L3RD again. This time, take each line and
demonstrate (for your twin):

    a. What is happening with the pc, his bank in that situation, and,

    b. The handling instruction for each line--showing each step of the
handling and what is happening with the pc and his bank as it is
handled.

    3. With your twin, drill the handling of each line per the
instruction written on the L3RD. Drill each line one at a time, until
you have it. On a gradient, the coach throws in

                R3R PROCEDURE 395

situations that could come up, originations, etc. that must be handled.
End off on this step when you feel confident that you can handle each
question on the L3RD.

    4. Drill assessing the L3RD until you can assess it rapidly, with no
flubs, with excellent TRs, metering and admin--while seeing your meter,
preclear (coach) and worksheet all at one time. The coach squeezes the
cans to simulate instant reads and flunks for lack of impingement, any
other out TRs, mismetering, out admin, etc. (Note: on this step it is
not necessary to handle the reading questions. The purpose of this step
is to perfect your assessment patter.) Drill this for a method 3* and a
method 5* assessment (which follow).

    5. Drill the assessment and handling of the L3RD as you would do it
in session:

    a. Clear the prefix (that is, "in Dianetics," "In your last session"
etc., as needed.) R-factor: "We are going to do an assessment. Just sit
there comfortably."

    b. Assess until you get an ~instant read~

    c. Handle as per instructions on L3RD

    d. Follow method 3 procedures. (See Auditor Drill Method 3 below.)


¤Practical Auditor Drill¤


    Name: Method 3 Unbull-baited.
          Method 3 Bull-baited.

    Steps:

    1. Use meter at a sensitivity so meter needle is loose but it is
easy to keep needle at "set." If sensitivity is too high the needle will
be in constant motion as one tries to set the Tone Arm. If too low, the
instant read will not be visible. Five (5) is usual for upper grade
cases. Sixteen (16) is usual for lower grade or Dianetic cases.

    2. Have your meter in a position (line of sight) so you can see the
list and the needle or you can see the needle and the pc. The meter
position is important.

    3. Hold the printed list close beside the meter. Have your worksheet
more to the right. Keep record on your worksheet. Mark the pc's name and
date on it. Mark what

                396 BOOK THREE

list it is on the worksheet with the time. It remains in the folder
stapled to the worksheet.

    4. Read the question on the list, note if it reads. Do ~not~ read it
while looking at the pc. It is more important to see the pc's cans than
his face as can-fiddle can fake or upset reads.

    5. TR-1 must be good so the pc clearly hears it.

    6. You are looking for an ~instant read~ that occurs at the end of
the exact last syllable of the question.

    7. If it does not read, mark the list "X." If the list is being done
through an F/N and the F/N just continues, mark the question F/N.

    8. If the question reads, do ~not~ say "That reads." Mark the read
at once (sF, F, LF, LFBD, R/S), transfer the number of the question to
the worksheet and look expectantly at the preclear. You can repeat the
question by just saying it again if the preclear doesn't begin to talk.
He has probably already begun to answer as the question was live in his
bank as noted by the meter.

    9. Take down the pc's remarks in shortened form on the worksheet.
Note any TA changes on the worksheet.

    10. If the pc's answer results in an F/N, (cognition, VGIs sometimes
follow, GIs always accompany a real F/N) mark it rapidly on the
worksheet and say "Thank you. I would like to indicate your needle is
floating."

    11. Do ~not~ wait endlessly for the pc to say more. If you do he
will go into doubt and find more, also do ~not~ chop what he is saying.

    12. If there is no F/N, at the first pause that looks like the
preclear thinks he has said it, ask for an earlier similar ______
whatever the question concerned. Do ~not~ change the question. Do ~not~
fail to repeat what the question is. "Was there an earlier similar time
you were protesting?" This is the "E/S" part of it. You do ~not~ leave
such a question merely "clean." "Suppress" and "false" are used as
needed.

    13. It does not matter now if you look at the preclear when you say
it or not. But you can look at the preclear when you say it.

    14. The preclear will answer. If he comes to a "looks like he thinks
he said it" and no F/N, you ask the same question as above.

                R3R PROCEDURE 397

    15. You ask this question "Was there an earlier similar _______?"
until you finally get an F/N and GIs. You indicate the F/N.

    16. That is the last of that particular question.

    17. You mark "F/N" on the list and call the next question on the
list. You call this and other questions without looking at the preclear.

    18. Those that do not read, you mark as out. (X)

    19. The next question that reads, you mark it on the list, and
transfer the question number to the worksheet.

    20. Take the pc's answer.

    21. Follow the above E/S procedure as needed until you get an F/N
and GIs for the question. Acknowledge. Indicate and return to the
printed list.

    22. You keep this up until you have done the whole list in this
fashion.

    23. If you get no read on the list question but the preclear
volunteers some answer to an unreading question, do ~not~ take it up.
Just acknowledge and carry on with your printed list.

    24. ~Believe your meter~. Do not take up things that don't read.
Don't get "hunches." Don't let the preclear run his own case by
answering nonreading items and then the auditor taking them up. Also
don't let a preclear "fiddle the cans" to get a false read or to obscure
a real one. Also if a question is
not going to F/N, "suppress" and "false" can be used as in rudiments.

    25. F/N everything on the assessment that read.

    26. When all items are handled tell the preclear
"That completes the   (list name) ."
                    ---------------

    If halfway down a prepared list (the last part not yet done) the
preclear on some question gets a wide F/N, big cognition, VGIs, the
auditor is justified in calling the list complete and going to the next
C/S action or ending the session.

    There are two reasons for this one, the F/N will usually just
persist and can't be read through and further action will tend to
invalidate the win.

    The auditor can also carry on to the end of the prepared list if he
thinks there may be something else on it.

                398 BOOK THREE

    Name: Method 5 Unbull-baited.
          Method 5 Bull-baited.

    Steps:

    1. R-factor to the pc.

    2. Take the prepared list.

    3. Assess down it rapidly marking reads, and the size of them on the
assessment sheet or if no read, X. If stop or F/N, mark such.

    4. Also keep the pc in the field of vision so preclear movement is
not mistaken for reads.

    5. Continue the full assessment without indicating any reads or
handling. If the preclear originates just TR-4 it.

    6. Mark in which order you are going to handle, according to the
type of list assessed, normally in descending size of read.

    7. R-factor to preclear: "We are going to handle some of the items.
The first one is _____ (line off list)."

    8. Handle each item that read, and check it off on the list that it
is handled. "Suppress" and "false" can be used where needed to take an
item to F/N. (As used in rudiments.)

    F/N everything on the assessment that read.

    9. When all items are handled tell the preclear
"That completes the  (list name) ."
                   --------------


¤Auditing Out Sessions¤


    Now and then it is necessary to audit out the last session or an
auditing session.

    One does this by R3R but there is a slight change in wording when
asking the pc to go earlier. One asks for an ~earlier similar incident~.
"Is there an earlier similar incident?" A session, when audited, does
not always erase. Instead it has become part of a chain. Therefore one
has to run R3R on it and get an earlier similar ~incident~.

    The chain may go back vast amounts of time.

    Whereas the pc may only have been in Scientology three days, before
Scientology there were other types of "sessions" such as psychoanalysis.
And before that, in Rome and Greece, dream therapy in which one was
"visited by a god." And before that, well, the chain can have a very far

                R3R PROCEDURE 399

back basic. One does not, of course, suggest ever what the earlier
incident may be. There is no telling what the pc may confuse with a
session.

    If one asked the pc to "Locate an earlier incident with a similar
feeling," one would be on another chain entirely. Hence one asks,
simply, "Is there an earlier similar incident?" when running a session
out.

    Running a session out has the liability that one is running a
~narrative chain~, a similar ~experience~ rather than a similar somatic.

    One of the major 1969 breakthroughs was that chains are held
together mainly by somatics. The body condition or somatic is what keeps
the chain in association.

    One can, of course, run "narrative incidents" by which one means
similar ~experiences~. "Locate an earlier time your mother spanked you."
"Locate an earlier wreck." These will run and sometimes even get to and
erase a basic. ~But~ they are ~long~ and sometimes don't ever get to
basic at all and the chain may not erase.

    Somatic chains go quickly to basic and are the important chains.

    Thus when we erase a chain of sessions we sometimes run into a very
long chain. Sometimes the TA goes up to 4 or 5 (particularly if the
auditor grinds). Using a wrong "go earlier" command is a primary reason
for trouble.

    Usually if you ask simply for an earlier similar incident the pc
goes back to something that will erase and the chain blows.

    But remember, asking for similar types of ~experience~ can cause
trouble in that it gets very long and basic may not appear for some
time.

    You can get away with running out sessions in most cases, enough to
make it a worthwhile action. But only if you ask for "an earlier similar
incident." This phrase is a workhorse phrase of auditing anyway.

    The ~best~ thing to do is goof no assessments or sessions in the
first place.

                400 BOOK THREE


¤Stuck Pictures¤


    A picture is stuck because of:

    a. An effort to withdraw from it or something in it
    b. An effort to stop or stop something in it
    c. A stop-withdraw combination
    d. An effort to suppress the picture or something in it
    e. An effort to invalidate the picture or something in it
    f. A protest against the picture or its content
    g. An effort to hold on to the picture
    h. An ARC break about the picture
    i. A present time problem about the picture
    j. An overt picture of which the stuck one is the motivator
    k. Too late on the chain of similar pictures.


    Long before one gets to (k) it should have blown.

    One should have had good luck running engrams himself before being
very expert on others.

    The above also applies to secondaries.

    Engrams which go solid when you try to run them are too late on the
chain, really.

    If you run too far back you get a preclear into masses he can't
easily handle.

    A preclear should never be ~forced~ into or through engrams. If he
has a struggle he should be running locks.

    Reality on engrams increases in ratio to the charge taken off the
case.

    In handling the above (a) to (k), you use (a) to run through until
the needle doesn't react, then (b) through. Then (c) through. And so on.
One at a time.

    Although I say ~stuck~ picture, you can use the above on any engram,
particularly if one "hangs up" in some portion.

    L3RD is also used to handle stuck pictures.


¤Peculiarities¤


    When you run into pc peculiarities or odd pc phenomena in Dianetic
auditing that get in the road of R3R, ~do not~ try to solve it by going
nonstandard or getting inventive. It will be fatal.

                R3R PROCEDURE 401

    The operating rule is end off the session and ~send the pc to
Scientology review~.

    If you are a Scientology as well as a Dianetic auditor, you may be
tempted to at once shift into Scientology. That can also be fatal.

    If no Qualifications Division* is nearby and you are a Scientology
auditor also and if no other Scientology auditor is around to give the
review only then could you attempt a "green form"* which is used in
Qualifications Divisions in Scientology churches. The way to do that is
end the Dianetic session, take a break and begin the Scientology review
session.

    But this is not good. It is best to send the pc to Qual.

    Some odd phenomena that come under this rule follow:

    Pc gets a stuck picture and can't audit the chain he should be on
because picture keeps coming in.

    Pc's pictures are constantly changing, sometimes too fast to grab
onto.

    Pc gets a dozen pictures at once and can't run them or decide what
to run.

    Field goes black and won't clear up.

    Pc gets angry at auditor.

    Pc very nattery about Dianetics or Scientology.

    On these or many more the Dianetic auditor should ~never~ try to
force the pc to go on or do something odd or brilliant. He should simply
say "I am sorry. I will end this session." And does so. And sends the pc
to the nearest Qual Division. Where possible, however, Dianetic
outnesses should be handled by using the Standard Dianetic correction
list, L3RD.


¤Dianetics is Precision Run¤


    There is no permissive R3R. Skipping R3R commands or not making the
pc do each one gives you key-outs like recalls and a self-auditing pc.
The pc is made to execute each step by order even if he's done it. Pcs
will come back under auditor control!

    A fast pc is never too fast for a precision auditor. There is a
~difference~ between a ~fast~ pc and a pc whom the auditor is not
controlling.

                402 BOOK THREE

    R3R is run ~muzzled~. Only the commands as given above are used. The
~full~ extent of TR-0 to TR-4 is used. No step is skipped ever.

    R3R is precise and exact and never varied whether run by a Dianetic
auditor with no other classification or by a Dianetic auditor who is
also a highly classed Scientology auditor.

    This is the most exact procedure known. And there you have it,
engram running superior to any engram running ever done and giving
superior and faster results.


           -----------------------------------------------
                Important Note:

            As the first pages of this
            book were being printed,
            "Quadruple Dianetic Flows"
            was re-released by L. Ron
            Hubbard. In order not to
            delay the publishing of this
            long awaited work,
            an addendum[1] giving the
            reader all data and rules
            regarding "Quadruple
            Dianetics" has been included.
            The reader is asked to read
            passages up to and including
            the section concerning Triple
            Flows and then to read the
            addendum before continuing any
            further.

            [1] See page 963       The Editor
          --------------------------------------------------


                CHAPTER 3

                THE PC'S INTRODUCTION
                TO AUDITING

    The "training" of a new preclear (never-before audited) has long
been a subject of know-how amongst auditors but has not actually been
covered previously.

    The conditions of a new preclear are these:

    a. Doesn't know what is supposed to happen

    b. May be under stress of being embarrassed to talk to someone

    c. May have preconceived ideas of how he is supposed to respond to
the auditor (such as psychoanalytic "free association" where he just
talks, etc.)

    d. May be waiting for some magical effect entirely independent of
his own participation (as in getting a "shot" from a doctor).

    It is too much to ask of a being to:

    1. Talk to another intimately about himself.

    2. Fumble with a new activity while

    3. Confronting his own bank.

    Possibly he has never done any of the three before and to ask him to
do them all at once . . . well!

                404 BOOK THREE

    All cases are started in their lowest ability level since they have
not had it increased. Whereas they may be quite well-off as human
beings, they do not know how well-off they might become.

    The wrong thing to do is to enforce their improvement with a sales
talk or evaluation on how well they did in the session.

    And it is wrong to go on auditing them while they essentially remain
in mystery.

    The correct solution to all these difficulties is to assign the pc
to do a Personal Efficiency Course if it includes TRs and to have the pc
do the TRs before being audited.

    If the preclear seems not to be improving even as early as the TRs,
a white form* of case and health history should be very carefully done,
including narcotics.

    If he is on narcotics he must come off them and have been off them
for a while (six weeks), before resuming his auditing.

    If on resuming auditing the preclear still does not gain, a careful
and full medical-clinical examination should be ordered as the preclear
is medically ill in some previously unsuspected fashion.

    Should this not prove to be the case, or if the pc does not get well
then apply an auditing assist.

    Above all, don't let ~unnecessary~ stops occur on this line for pcs
who just sail through.


                ¤Dianetic Auditing C/S 1*¤


    PURPOSE I: CASE SUPERVISORS--to be able to order a standard auditing
C/S 1 for Dianetics or Scientology for new pcs or already audited pcs as
required to ensure that both auditors and pcs will be able to accomplish
successfully the purpose of a Dianetic or Scientology auditing session.

    PURPOSE II: AUDITORS--to get the reality and procedure on what is
required to educate a new pc or previously audited pc as needed so that
auditing of Dianetics or Scientology can occur.

                THE PC'S INTRODUCTION TO AUDITING 405

    PURPOSE III: PRECLEARS--to give pcs new to Dianetics or Scientology
and to give previously audited pcs as needed, the necessary data and
R-factor* on basics and auditing procedures so that they understand and
are able and willing to be audited successfully.

                -------------------------

    Give the pc R-factor that you are going to do an auditing C/S 1 to
familiarize him with auditing procedure and any basic data that may
require clarification.

    Note: Some pcs who have been trained or audited previously may
protest that they know the terms and procedures. Acknowledge with
excellent TRs and without invalidation or evaluation and tell them that
this C/S is intended to make auditing more effective for all preclears.
If the auditor uses excellent TRs and good R-factor, no ARC breaks
should ever occur and the preclear will have tremendous wins.

    The auditor should take a very thorough look at what has to be
covered with the preclear in this C/S 1 and should ~know~ his materials
very well and have them ready in the C/S 1 session for reference and for
clearing up misunderstoods and questions that the preclear may have.

    Cover by exact definition all terms used.

    Get your preclear to give real "life" examples using his experiences
or those of friends or relatives.

    Do not settle for glib or "perfect answers" that do not show
understanding or, on the other hand, do not overrun or put duress on the
preclear.

    1. Clear the words:

    ~Dianetics~                 ~Scientology~
    ~auditor~                   ~preclear~
    ~Clear~                     ~auditing session~
    ~auditing~

    Check for understanding and have preclear explain it back to you in
his own words.

    2. Clear: ~E-meter~.

    For demonstrations, you can do a "pinch test" where you explain to
the preclear that to show him how the meter

                406 BOOK THREE

registers mental mass you will give him a pinch as part of the
demonstration. Then get him to think of the pinch (while he is holding
the cans) showing him the meter reaction and explaining how it registers
mental mass.

    You can also use E-meter drill 21 in ~The Book of E-meter Drills~,
"Consider the Events of Today."

    Check if preclear has any questions, and if so, clear them up with a
source reference.

    3. Clear the words:

    ~thetan~          ~picture~         ~mental image~
    ~body~            ~mind~             ~picture~

    Check for misunderstoods or questions and refer to source for
answers. Get the preclear to explain it back to you and give examples or
demonstrations.

    4. Clear the words:

    ~postulate~

    Have the preclear explain it back to you. Have him give you examples
of a time or two when he postulated something and got it.

    ~mental mass~*       ~bank~
    ~reactive mind~      ~charge~
    ~key-out~            ~release~
    ~cognition~          ~floating needle~

    Use the book glossary.

    5. Clear:

    The ~communication cycle~ and the ~auditing comm cycle~.

    Get the preclear to explain it back to you giving examples he has
observed. Get him to explain the difference between a comm cycle and the
auditing comm cycle. Have him demonstrate it. You can also ask him
questions like: "Have you eaten dinner?" (or breakfast or lunch)--and
when he replies, ask "What did you do when I asked you that question?"

    Then tell him to ask you a similar sort of question. Answer him and
be sure he acknowledges you. Really establish your comm cycle with the
preclear. Check for and clear up any misunderstoods or questions the
preclear may have on this.

                THE PC'S INTRODUCTION TO AUDITING 407

    6. Clear the words:

    ~axiom~                    ~mest~

    Go over Scientology Axioms 30, 32, and 51.*

    Check for and clear up any misunderstoods or questions the preclear
may have on this.

    7. Go over Auditor's Code numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 14, 17,
18, 19, and 22.

    Check for and clear up any misunderstoods or questions the preclear
may have on this.

    8. Clear the words and have preclear demonstrate the following:

    ~rudiment~               ~affinity (A)~
    ~ARC break~              ~reality (R)~
    ~present time            ~communication (C)~
      problem (PTP)~         ~understanding (U)~
    ~overt~                  ~curious (C)~
    ~withhold (W/H)~         ~desired (D)~
    ~missed withhold~        ~enforced (E)~
    ~(M/W/H)~                ~inhibited (I)~
                             ~no (N)~
                             ~refused (R)~


    9. Clear what a ~repetitive command~ is. Explain why and how it is
done. Have preclear demonstrate it to you.

    10. Clear ~similar~ and ~earlier~ and ~earlier similar~. Give
preclear some examples of where it would be used.

    11. Clear and explain very simply what a ~preclear examiner~ is and
what he does in relation to an aftersession examination and an attest.

    Have preclear explain it back to you and demonstrate it. Handle any
questions he may have on the preclear examiner.

    12. Clear the words:

    ~assess~                ~assessment~

    Explain what assessment is and that it is not auditing. Show
preclear with a demonstration why it is not auditing.

    13. To give your preclear more mass on an auditing session and the
bank, you can do the following:

    Have a flat board 15 inches by 20 inches. Have lots of clay. Before
session starts, the auditor makes two clay bodies about 7 inches tall,
two clay chairs and a table. Put

                408 BOOK THREE

them to one side of the board (don't place the clay bodies on the
chairs) then as you and your preclear go through the C/S 1, have him
build the parts of a session and parts of the mind, comm cycle, etc., in
clay, adding more and more parts and labels as he learns them. This
would be in addition to using a demonstration kit.*

    Note: The above general C/S 1 covers only the basics of getting a
preclear sessionable. ~Know~ the preclear in front of you and get your
product of an educated preclear who can run Dianetics easily and get
case gain. So you must find out what is needed and wanted to attain your
product on that preclear. The C/S can also order any additional actions.

    Give an R-factor that you are now going to clear the Dianetic
auditing procedure. Go over the Dianetic illustrations with the
preclear. (You can also use data on the time track.)

    1. Give an R-factor on the action of the "Dianetics Clearing Lists
and R3R" and clear the words with the preclear. Clear the words:

    ~attitude~           ~sensation~
    ~emotion~            ~pain~


    Make sure the preclear understands the difference between pain and
sensation.

    2. Take up Routine 3R. Clear the word ~flow~. Clear each flow. Have
the preclear give examples and demonstrations.

    Clear also ~R3R~.

    3. Clear ~each~ command of the R3R procedure.

    4. Then tell the preclear that you and he will do a demonstration so
he will get a reality on how the Dianetic R3R procedure works in
auditing.

    Have the preclear put the cans down and touch his right foot. Then
have the preclear "Locate the incident of touching your right foot."
Continue with Steps 2 through 9 and A to D, erasing/solid and earlier
incident etc.

    After each step ask the preclear "What did you do?" so that he gets
the idea of how R3R is run. Don't overdo this step, but ensure that the
preclear understands what is required of him at each step.

    5. Clear the Dianetic listing procedures, i.e., the health form
(don't ask preclear questions from the health form) and

                THE PC'S INTRODUCTION TO AUDITING 409

A, E, S, P (attitude, emotion, sensation, pain) type of lists. Give
examples. Check for any questions and handle.

    In doing an auditing C/S 1 the auditor would pick up any
disagreements or misunderstoods and clear them with excellent TRs and
R-factor.

    This C/S 1 can usually be completed in one session. If it is done in
more than one, the session should be ended off at the end of a step or
completion of a word or demonstration--never in the middle. Make sure
you do not leave your preclear with a misunderstood or confusion.

    This C/S 1 will result in huge wins for any preclear whether new or
previously audited, and even the newest preclear should be able to be
audited like a well-trained veteran preclear.


                CHAPTER 4

                RUDIMENTS
                AND HAVINGNESS


¤Rudiments¤



    No auditing is possible in the presence of an ARC break. Other
auditing is not possible in the presence of present time problems and
overts.

    These are data like "acknowledge the pc," "an auditor is one who
listens," etc.

    When a pc has a PTP and you don't handle it, you get ~no~ gain.
There will be no rise on a personality test graph. There will be little
if any TA action. There will be no gain in the session. The pc will not
make his session goals, etc., etc. So you don't audit pcs who have PTPs
on anything but the PTPs ~the pc has~.

    And you don't audit PTPs slowly and forever. There are numerous ways
of handling PTPs. One of them is "What communication have you left
incomplete about that problem?" A few answers and poof! No PTP. Another
is "What doesn't (that person or thing pc is having PTP with) know about
you?" Other versions of overts and withholds can be

                412 BOOK THREE

used. These are all fast PTP handling methods and they get rid of the
PTP and you can audit what you started to audit.

    The mark of an amateur in auditing is somebody who can always do
successful assists but can't do a real session. The secret is: in an
assist you are handling the PTP, aren't you? So you never audit over the
top of (in the presence of) a PTP!

    Another circumstance is "can't get down to real auditing because the
pc always has so many PTPs." This is only a confession that one can't
~handle~ a PTP and then get on with the session. One fumbles with the
PTPs so badly as an auditor one never really handles the pc's PTPs so of
course one never gets on with the job at hand--auditing the pc.

    The pro, in a real session, just handles the PTPs quickly, gets the
pc into sesson and gets on with whatever should be run.

    Overts are the other principal source of getting no gain.

    Here we really can tell the goony birds from the eagles
professionally.

    No pro would ~think~ of auditing a pc on other processes in the
presence of overts.

    1. The pro would recognize by the pc's natter, or lack of previous
gain, that the pc had overts.

    2. The pro would know that if he tried to do something else besides
pull these overts, that the pc would eventually get critical of the
auditor; and

    3. The pro wouldn't (a) fail to pull the real overts or (b) ARC
break the pc in getting the overts off.

    If one gets "reasonable" about the pc's condition and starts
agreeing with the motivators ("look at all the bad things they did to
me"), thus ignoring the overts, that's the end of gains for that pc with
that auditor.

    If one is clumsy in recognizing overts, if one fails to get the pc
to give them up, if one fails to properly acknowledge the overts when
given, or if one demands overts that aren't there, overt pulling becomes
a howling mess.

    Because, then, getting the pc's overts off is a tricky business,
auditors sometimes become shy of doing it. And fail as auditors.

                RUDIMENTS AND HAVINGNESS 413

    Sometimes pcs who have big overts become highly critical of the
auditor and get in a lot of snide comments about the auditor. If the
overt causing it is not pulled the pc will get no gains and may even
get ARC broken. If the auditor doesn't realize that such natter ~always~
indicates a real overt, when pcs do it, eventually over the years it
makes an auditor shy of auditing.

    Auditors buy "critical thoughts" the pc "has had" as real overts,
whereas a critical thought is a ~symptom~ of an overt, not the overt
itself. Under these critical thoughts a ~real~ overt lies undetected.

    Also, there's the pc who "has" to get off a withhold about you.
"last night Jim said you were awful . . ." An experienced auditor closes
the right eye slightly, cocks his head a bit to the left and says, "What
have you been ~doing~ to me I haven't known about?" "I thought . . . "
begins the pc. "The question is," says the old pro, "What have you been
doing to me that I don't know about. The word is ~doing~." And off comes
the overt like "I've been getting audited by Bessy Squirrel between
sessions in the coffee shop."

    Well, some auditors are so "reasonable" they never really learn the
mechanism and go on getting criticized and getting no gains on pcs and
all that. I once heard an auditor say, "Of course he was critical of me.
What he said was true. I'd been doing a terrible job." The moral of this
story is contained in the fact that this auditor's pc blew. The pc had
terrible overts on Dianetics and the auditor, yet this auditor was so
"reasonable" those overts were never cleaned up. And that was the end of
those auditing sessions.

    It's almost never that drastic, but if an auditor won't pull overts,
well auditing gets pretty unpleasant and pretty pointless too.

    A lack of grasp of the overt-motivator sequence (when somebody has
committed an overt, he or she ~has~ to claim the existence of
motivators--when one has a motivator he is liable to hang himself by
committing an overt) puts an auditor at a very bad disadvantage. Howling
pcs and no pc wins.

    You can't audit an ARC break. In fact you must ~never~ audit in the
presence of one.

                414 BOOK THREE

    Only auditing over the top of an ARC break can reduce a graph, hang
the pc up in sessions or worsen his case. So it's next to the most
serious blunder that an auditor can make. (The most serious error is to
deny assistance either by not trying to get the pc into session or not
using Dianetics at all.)

    Auditing an ARC broken pc and never realizing it can lead to very
serious trouble for the auditor and will worsen the pc's case--the only
thing that will.

    It is elementary auditing knowledge that no gains occur in the
presence of PTPs or overts and that cases worsen when audited over the
top of an ARC break.

    There aren't "lots more conditions that can exist." Given an
auditing session there are only these three barriers to auditing.

    One puts the pc on the meter to start off and checks for PTPs,
overts, withholds even ARC breaks, handles them quickly and then goes
into the body of the session. One just knows the things that mustn't be
there (PTPs, overts, ARC breaks) and checks for them, handles if found
and goes on with the main session activity. If a PTP or an overt or an
ARC break shows up, one handles them.

    It's true of any auditing that gets done.

    They're with the auditor in every session ever to be run. So one
might as well stay alert to them and be continuously expert in handling
them.

    They are the only big reefs on which an auditing session can go up
high and dry so their existence, causes and cures are of the greatest
possible importance to the skilled auditor.

    ALL ARC BREAKS STEM FROM MISSED WITHHOLDS.

    This is vital technology, vital to the auditor and to anyone who
wants to live.

    Conversely:

    THERE ARE NO ARC BREAKS WHEN MISSED
WITHHOLDS HAVE BEEN CLEANED UP.

    By WITHHOLD is meant AN UNDISCLOSED
CONTRA-SURVIVAL ACT.

                RUDIMENTS AND HAVINGNESS 415

    BY MISSED WITHHOLD is meant AN UNDISCLOSED
CONTRA-SURVIVAL ACT WHICH HAS BEEN RESTIMULATED
BY ANOTHER BUT NOT DISCLOSED.

    This is FAR more important in an auditing session than most auditors
have yet realized. Even when some auditors are told about this and shown
it they still seem to miss its importance and fail to use it. Instead
they continue to use strange methods of controlling the pc and oddball
processes on ARC breaks.

    This is so bad that one auditor let a pc blow rather than pick up
the missed withholds! So allergy to picking up missed withholds can be
so great that an auditor has been known to fail utterly rather than do
so. Only constant hammering can drive this point home. When it is driven
home, only then can auditing begin to happen across the world; the datum
is that important.

    An auditing session is 50% technology and 50% application. I am
responsible for the technology. The auditor is wholly responsible for
the application. Only when an auditor realizes this can he or she begin
to obtain uniformly marvelous results everywhere.

    No auditor needs "something else," some odd mechanism to keep pcs in
session.

    PICKING UP MISSED WITHHOLDS KEEPS
PCS IN SESSION.

    There is ~no~ need for a rough, angry ARC breaky session. If there
is one it is ~not~ the fault of the pc. It is the fault of the auditor.
The auditor has failed to pick up missed withholds.

    It is not the pc that sets the tone of the session. It is the
auditor. And the auditor who has a difficult session (providing he or
she has used standard technology and can run an E-meter) has one only
because he or she failed to ask for missed withholds.

    What is called a "dirty needle" (a pc's needle pattern) is caused by
missed withholds, not withholds.

    Technology today is so powerful that it must be flawlessly applied.
One has his TRs and E-meter operation completely perfect. And one
follows exact technology. And one keeps the missed withholds picked up.

                416 BOOK THREE

    There is an exact and precise auditor action and response for every
auditing situation, and for every case. We are not today beset by
variable approaches. The less variable the auditor's actions and
responses, the greater gain in the pc. It is terribly precise. There is
no room for flubs.

    Further, every pc action has an exact auditor response. And each of
these has its own drill by which it can be learned.

    Auditing today is not an art, either in technology or procedure. It
is an ~exact~ spiritual technology. This removes Dianetics and
Scientology from every one of the past practices of the mind.

    Medicine advanced only to the degree that its responses by the
practitioner were standardized and the practitioner has a professional
attitude toward the public.

    Dianetics and Scientology are far ahead of that today.

    What a joy it is to a preclear to receive a completely standard
session, to receive a textbook session. And what gains the pc makes! And
how easy it is on the auditor!

    It isn't how interesting or clever the auditor is that makes the
session. It's how standard the auditor is. Therein lies pc confidence.


¤Rudiments Procedure¤


    The first thing the Dianetic auditor does is to make sure the room
and session are set up. This means, in other words, that the room is as
comfortable as possible and free from interruptions and distractions;
that the auditor's meter is set up and that the auditor's report form
and worksheets are ready, that any correction lists, forms or references
that might be needed are at hand.

    The pc is seated in the chair furthest from the door and is asked to
pick up the cans. (From now until the session ends the pc stays on the
cans.)

    0. C/S says "Fly a rud." If TA 3.5 or above, or low do not start the
session. Send the folder back to the C/S for further instructions. Never
attempt to handle a high TA with rudiments.

    If the TA is in normal range, the auditor says: "This is the
session." (Tone 40.)

    1. Auditor obnoses whether the pc is in session and ready to be
addressed.

    If the needle is floating and the pc has VGIs, the auditor goes
directly into the major action of the session. If not, the auditor must
fly a rudiment.

                RUDIMENTS AND HAVINGNESS 417

    2. Auditor hands the pc (for ~new pcs~ or a pc new to him, as the
auditor) the ~Scientology Dictionary~, page opened on ARC, pc on the
cans. Auditor clears "ARC" with the pc and "ARC break" all from the
~Scientology Dictionary~. Auditor clarifies C,D, E, I, N, R. The auditor
ensures the pc really "got" it.

    3. To an ~experienced pc~ the auditor could say, "We are going to
fly a rud."

    4. NOTE: Do not use the ARC break rudiment to try to bring down a
high TA.

    The CDEI scale as assessed when flying the ARC break rud is expanded
to

        CURIOUS
        DESIRED
        ENFORCED
        INHIBITED
        NO
        REFUSED

    5. The rud would run like this:

    1. Do you have an ARC break? (read) (suppress) or (false).

    2. What was it?

    3. Was it a break in ARCU? (assess)

    You assess it once, ask the pc if it's right. If he says no,
rehandle. If yes, give it to him.

    CDEINR follows the same rule.

    4. Was it CDEI No Refused? (assess)--(add ARC or U from 3). As in 3
above you assess it once, ask the pc if it's right. If he says no,
rehandle.

    If yes, give the pc the combined assessment as ARCU plus CDEINR as
"It was ____." e.g. "It was a no reality."

    5. If no F/N, "Is there an earlier similar ARC break?" Handle as in
2, 3, and 4 above.

    An example of incorrect assessment of an ARC break would be as
follows.

    A sF /
    R x x
    C F x
    U x x

    The auditor is doing it by elimination, doing it twice because of a
possible instant read fault.

    Assessing by elimination is done on double (2 item) reads. But a hot
auditor does it on best largest ~instant~ read.

    The auditor that knows his business does not miss the read. The pc
will also brighten up, even if ever so slightly, ~on the very first
assessment~. PROVIDED THE RIGHT ITEM HAS BEEN GOTTEN.

                418 BOOK THREE

    Sometimes the pc will originate, "Yes, I guess it was reality, but
to me it really is more a break in communication," (for example). The
wise auditor then says, "Thank you," and indicates the break in
communication.

    6. If the pc says "No" but appears ARC broken, or has an ARC break
F/N, had a read on the question, auditor says, "Has an ARC break been
suppressed?"

    The auditor's TRs and obnosis being in, he will get a response in
the affirmative from the pc, and he then handles ARCU--CDEINR E/S to EP.

    7. Pc may be ARC broken to the extent of being unwilling to even
talk to the auditor. The auditor then says without further preamble "Is
this ARC break a break in A, R, C, U," indicates the charge and then
assesses C, D, E, I, N, R, and indicates. Go E/S and handle to EP.

    8. If the pc is not ARC broken the needle will float on the
question.

    9. A read may have occurred on the question without the pc being ARC
broken, in which case the situation gets handled by asking the "false
read" button: "Who said you had an ARC break when you didn't have one?"

    This may well have to be taken E/S to F/N by asking "Is there an
earlier similar time someone said you had an ARC break when you didn't
have one?"

    10. Ask pc, "Do you have a present time problem?" (If needed, clear
the question first.)

    11. Acknowledge what the pc gives. If "No" and no F/N, check "On the
question, do you have a PTP, has anything been suppressed?" If it reads
get what. Take it E/S PTP to F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    12. If no F/N ask "Do you have an earlier similar present time
problem?" etc., to F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    Suppress--If no read, or no E/S ask "Do you have a suppressed
earlier similar problem?" Watch for read.

    False--"Who said you had a PTP when you didn't have one?" "Earlier
similar time someone said you had a PTP when you didn't?"

    13. Clear missed withhold command if needed.

    14. Ask pc "Has a withhold been missed?"

                RUDIMENTS AND HAVINGNESS 419

    15. Then, "What's the withhold?" Remember one must find an overt
~doingness~--something the pc did DO!

    "Who missed it?"

    "What did he/she do that made you think he/she knew?"

    "Who else missed it?"

    16. If when you asked "Who else missed it?" and the meter was clean,
acknowledge and go E/S.

    17. E/S. Ask pc, "Is there an E/S missed withhold?" Repeat Steps
15-17 to F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    Note: Rudiment questions are not rote. There are many ways to ask
for an ARC break (Upset? Sad?), PTP (Worried? Concerned?) Missed
Withhold (Not told? Haven't said?).

    If the pc is not fully okay on a rudiment, although one chain may
have F/Ned, there may be another chain in restimulation. If pc not fully
okay--on that rud--check "Do you have ~another~ ARC break (PTP, W/H)?"
Handle to EP.

    On C/S order use W/H rud as additional to M/W/H rud. If so, clear
the question (for the pc) and ask "Are you withholding anything?" Noting
the meter read, get ~what~ the withhold is; if discreditable and missed
withhold (M/W/H) phenomena turns on (critical-nattery), find out all and
who nearly found out, earlier similar withhold--checking suppress when
no read and false when pc says "No" but meter reads, as necessary to
F/N, cognition, VGIs. Otherwise go E/S W/H to F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    Example: "Do you have an ARC break?" Pc natters about auditor.

    Auditor: "Good. What withhold was missed?" Pull it. Or pc natters
about Sam.

    Auditor: "What have you done to Sam that he doesn't know about?" And
pull it. If no F/N--

    "When did Sam miss it?"

    "What did he do that made you think he knew?"

    "Is there an earlier similar missed withhold?" to EP.


¤The Importance of Havingness¤


    A preclear will not progress when his havingness is impaired.

                420 BOOK THREE

    Definition of Havingness: willingness and ability to duplicate in
all senses of the word.

    What are the symptoms of loss of havingness? Running any as-ising
techniques, such as R3R, the preclear may become anaten,* slightly
nervous, agitated, want a cigarette, or seem to break out of the session
in some fashion. In either case, he is "down on havingness." In other
words he has burned up, used up or as-ised too much of his physical body
energy in the auditing itself. In view of the fact that every subjective
technique puts a sort of hole in the middle of the electronic mass
surrounding a preclear, parts of that mass then begin to cave in on the
preclear. Thus running an as-ising technique on a preclear requires a
repair or remedy of havingness.

    The following havingness processes are tested for on the E-meter in
an exact way.

    The havingness process is located on the ~needle~ by the preclear
squeezing the cans before the command is tested and after it has been
run five to eight commands.

    If the second squeeze shows the needle looser (wider swing) than the
first squeeze did, you've got it. The command you are testing is the
havingness command for the preclear and may thereafter be used at
intervals to set up the room in rudiments, gain havingness before or
after processes and at session end, using only ten or twelve commands at
a time.

    Havingness is tested on the ~needle~ with can squeezes.

    If the process tested for havingness ~tightens~ the needle during
the test, get rid of it. Don't bridge off. Just get off now.

    The havingness process selected, even if the right one, if run too
much (more than ten or twenty commands), will start running the bank. It
doesn't harm the preclear, but that isn't its use. The tone arm may
"blow down" toward Clear read if you run fifteen minutes or half an hour
of the havingness process. Again, it might not.


¤Order of Use of Havingness¤


    In testing, first find the havingness process that suits the pc.

                RUDIMENTS AND HAVINGNESS 421

    Five to eight commands is enough to show if a havingness process is
going to work or not. If the needle fails to free and the tone arm
starts to rise, stop at once and go to the next test process.

    By definition: a pc's havingness process is one that returns the
tone arm to clear read and frees the needle (F/N).

    Here are the commands in possible order of likelihood they will
locate the pc's havingness process:

    "Point out something."

    "Look around here and point out an effect you could prevent."

    "What is the emotion of that (indicated object)?"

    "Notice that (indicated object)." (No acknowledgment) "What aren't
you putting into it?"

    "Look around here and find something you could have." "Look around
here and find something you could withhold."

    Outside process: "What is the condition of that person?"

    (Two ~small~ objects in auditor's hands.) Exposes them alternately
to pc, with as little motion of arms and hands as possible. "Look at
this (no acknowledgment). What around here isn't this duplicating?"

    "Where is the (room object)?" (Pc points.)

    "Look around here and find an object you are not in."

    "Look around here and find something you can agree with."

    "Point out something around here that is like something else."

    "Where isn't that (indicated object)?"

    "What is that (indicated object) not duplicating?"

    "What scene could that (indicated object) be part of?"

    "What bad activity is that (indicated object) not part of?"

    "Look around here and find something you could have."

    "Point out something in this room you could confront."

    "Point out something in this room you would rather not confront. "

    "What part of a beingness around here could you have?"

    "Look around here and find something you could withhold."

                422 BOOK THREE

    "Notice that (room object). Get the idea of making it connect with
you."

    "What else is that (indicated object)?"

    "Duplicate something."

    "What is the condition of that (indicated object)?"

    "What is the condition of that person?"

    "Notice that body." "What aren't you putting into it?"

    "Where would that wall have to be located so you wouldn't have to
restrain it?"

    "What around here would you permit to be duplicated?"
    or,
    "What is the safest thing in this room?"

    "Who would that (indicated object) be a good example to?"

    "What would you have to do to that (indicated object) in order to
have it?"

    A. "How could you deter a __________?"

    B. "What have you not given a _______?"

    Notice that (indicated room object). How could you get it to help
you?"

    "Notice that (room object). How could you fail to help it?"


¤The Purpose of Running Havingness¤


    Havingness is apparently the willingness and ability to duplicate in
all senses of the word. It also has many lesser connotations but the
havingness ability of a pc apparently depends upon his willingness and
ability to duplicate, again in all senses of the word.

    That which makes ~communication~ work in processes is the
duplication part of the communication formula (Axiom 28).

    The position of a being on the tone scale is determined by his
willingness and ability to duplicate. The lower the tone of the being
the less willing the being is to permit similar incidents to happen
again. This outlaws the experience factor and leaves the being with an
"experience scarcity" which causes him to refuse further experience.

    All this is remedied by objective havingness processes (objective
duplication increase). The bank additionally must

                RUDIMENTS AND HAVINGNESS 423

be adjusted by subjective confront processes (subjective duplication
increase).

    A case will not advance appreciably until the being can remedy
objective havingness. Objective havingness, the ability to remedy it,
determines the entrance point of the case. Before a process to improve a
pc's objective havingness is well-established, the case ~will not~
advance, no matter what else is run. After a process that remedies
objective havingness is sufficiently established the case will advance
on other processes so long as objective havingness is re-established
frequently.

    Objective havingness is probably incapable of making a case totally
stable in the absence of other objective processes.

    As havingness is the willingness to duplicate, then anything which
improves the pc's ability to duplicate improves his or her havingness.

    Various mimicry processes have some workability. They are
duplication processes and work only because they raise havingness.

    An objective havingness process must be found for every case which
will increase the can squeeze of the preclear.

    People go out of present time because they can't have the mest of
present time. That's it. Present time is the only referral point that
exists. In its absence all becomes "bank."

    The purpose of a havingness process is to get the preclear
stabilized in his environment. It will also do other things if overrun,
none bad, but other processes do them better.

    Once you have tested and found a havingness process for the preclear
you use it always at the end of a session. You may run the havingness
process during the session, for example, after completing all three
flows of an R3R item if the pc has indications of loss of havingness.
However, do not run havingness between flows (after each chain). To do
so would put a severe strain on the pc extrovert-introvertwise.

    Many havingness processes now exist. Use them.


                CHAPTER 5

                ASSISTS

    Definition of an assist: an action undertaken by a minister to
assist the spirit to confront physical difficulties.

    An assist is not normally done in a formal session. The way the term
has been used is a very simple activity to relieve an immediate
troublesome difficulty.

    An assist is much more specifically and definitely anything which is
done to alleviate a present time discomfort.

    An assist could happen almost anywhere. At the beginning of a
session, no matter how formally this session is constituted, you are
running an assist.

    You have an auditing room. You have a preclear, and you are the
auditor. You know all these things, but the preclear doesn't. Don't call
it a formal session. Tell the preclear that it is an assist. In
rendering an assist you should tell the preclear that this is an assist
to try to ease the pain in his hand a little, after which you are going
to stop.

                426 BOOK THREE

    The handling of an assist as an auditor is different from the
handling of a formal session since the factor of control is notably
slackened, sometimes almost completely missing.

    One of the factors in assists is that an assist has as a large part
of its anatomy, "trying to help." Just remember that you are only trying
to help and don't get your heart broken by the fact that the fellow's
broken spine doesn't heal instantly.

    Another factor is that an assist is differentiated and defined as
addressing the game someone knows he is playing.

    What techniques would comprise an assist? Anything that would help.
And what are these? One of the easiest ones to render is Locational
Processing.* You tell the person, "look at that chair. Look at that
ceiling. Look at that floor. Look at that hand," (the auditor pointing
to the objects), when the person has an injured hand and the pain will
diminish. This is a very easy assist.

    For example, a person has a bad shoulder. You touch his hand of the
same arm and say, "Close your eyes and look at my fingers." Make sure
that he keeps his eyes closed. You then touch him on the elbow and say,
"Look at my fingers." Do this anywhere on his body. Just touch him and
say, "Look at my fingers." This is a communication process which eases
his attention over from a concentration upon the injury to something
else which is quite near the injury to something else which is quite
near the injury and thus doesn't result in too much of a shock. It is
positive and gets positive results. It can be done by an untrained
person.

    You can teach this assist to anybody. If somebody has a bruise,
injury, a burn, a cut, the way to handle this is to tell the person to
close his eyes, and then you touch the area near and distant from the
vicinity of the injured area, asking them, with their eyes closed, to
look at your fingers. You contact them this way many times. They will
experience sudden pains in the area, and you will discover that the
"psychic trauma" has been discharged.

    You will find that most people do not have any upset about physical
contact. Most people think that this is the thing to do.

                ASSISTS 427

    Suppose you wanted to render an assist on somebody who had a very
indefinite difficulty. That is the hardest one to render an assist on.
The person has a pain but he cannot say where. He doesn't know what has
happened to him. He just ~feels~ bad. Use locational processing as such.
You will find out that this will work when other processes fail.

    An assist carries with it a certain responsibility. If you give an
assist casually to somebody out in the public and do not shove a calling
card in his pocket, you are making an error. The reason for this is that
he will not know from whom and where help came. An auditor goes through
life and he casts his shadow upon many people and they have really no
cognizance of what has happened at all if he is rendering an assist. But
these people have been helped. They don't know really by what except
some word that the auditor kept saying. They don't even know that he is
an auditor. They don't know anything about it at all. Show a person
where he can obtain further assistance and by whom the assistance was
given.

    Be yourself. Be positive. Be professional and definite. Have a
calling card and make sure the card is easily enough understood. Don't
ask them for permission. Just do it. There is no reason to wander around
and give them funny notions. If you are going to help some stranger out,
help him out. Don't explain to him or any bystander, otherwise you are
likely to stand there explaining, waiting for somebody's permission.
Don't bother with that. You act as though you are the one in charge and
you will be in charge. And this is part and parcel of the knowledge of
how to do an assist. You have got to be the person in charge. This has
to be so good, as far as you are concerned, that you overcome the
informality of the session to a very marked degree. If you do it
extremely well, the assist will amount to auditing.

    For example, there is a big accident and a crowd of people are
pressing around. The police are trying to push the people back. Well,
push the people back and then push the policeman back. Say, "Officer,
keep these people at a distance." Then you lean over the victim and snap
him back

                428 BOOK THREE

to rights. If you are enough THERE, everybody else will realize that YOU
are the one that is THERE. Therefore, such things as panic, worry,
wonder, upset, looking dreamily into the far distance, wondering what is
wrong or what should be done are no part of your makeup if you are
rendering an assist. Cool, calm and collected should be the keynote of
your attitude. Realize that to take control of any given situation it is
only necessary to be there more than anybody else. There is no
necromancy (magic; conjuration of the spirits of the dead in order to
predict the future) involved. Just BE there. The others aren't. And if
you are there enough, then somebody else will pull himself out of it and
go on living.

    Understand that an auditor when rendering an assist must make up
with presence what he lacks in surroundings and agreements. It all comes
under the heading of willingness to be there and willingness to control
people.

    One of the ways of convincing people of beingness and of being there
is to exercise control--positive, undeniable tone 40 control. Start to
control the situation with high enough ARC, enough presence and
factuality and there won't be anybody present that won't step back and
let you control the situation. You are entitled to it in the first place
because of senior "know-how." The control of body attention or thought
comprises the majority of your knowledge. Dianetics and Scientology
simply point in this direction. The observable thing is control of
attention, objects and thoughts. When you have good confidence of being
able to handle these, and when you positively know how to do these, then
you can make sure that everybody else knows you can do this, and you
make them realize this by doing it. You have all of these things
available in rendering an assist.

    You might never think of a riot as being a situation which
necessitated an assist, or an assist as applicable to a riot, but a riot
is simply a psychosomatic momentary injury or traumatic condition on the
third dynamic. Could you settle a riot? Well, if you can settle a riot,
you can certainly settle one person who is in a riot. The antithesis of
any pain, disturbance or tumult is order. The thing which controls
tumult is order, and conversely, the thing which controls

                ASSISTS 429

order is tumult. You need only bring order into a confused situation and
bring confusion into an orderly situation to control everything in the
field of motion, action and objects.

    This is a fantastic simplicity and one which takes some grasping.
Conceive as order, merely a fixed position, idea and attitude. A
policeman knows what he is supposed to do. Maybe he will put on a
tourniquet or maybe he won't. Keep the people away and stop everything
is his idea of how it should be. Now you can aid or abet the order he is
creating, or cancel the order by creating a confusion which he cannot
handle. Of the two, the first is the better in that situation. You aid
and abet and cap the order he is creating. If you were to accuse him of
having a confused accident scene, which is by now not at all confused,
and ask him to straighten it out, you would channel his attention in the
direction it has already gone, and so you control his attention.

    Remember, the injured person is still moving a little bit; he is
still breathing. There is still a tiny bit of motion going on. If you
were to ask him something on the order of "Can't we have it a little
quieter and more orderly here?" he would at once perceive that there was
far too much confusion and motion, and he would simply come under your
direction because you have simply channeled his attention in the
direction it was already going. Therefore, you have taken control.

    If you ever want to overset a fixed order, create a confusion. If
you want to overset a confusion, create a fixed order. Pick out of the
scene those beings in the scene whose attention is channeled in the
direction you want attention to go, and you aid and abet that attention
which already exists. Or, where you have too many fixed positions and
fixed ideas to overcome, you simply take those turbulent individuals in
the scene who are creating the confusion against those fixed ideas and
channels and you make their confusion much more confused, at the same
time yourself imposing another order in another direction.

    The mechanics of taking over any confused scene are simply the
mechanics of trying to get a preclear to see through the morass of cross
purposes, commands, ideas, and

                430 BOOK THREE

environments in which he has lived. And whether that applies to the
third dynamic or otherwise, the laws are still there and it tells you
then that the imposition of order on a preclear comes foremost in an
assist.

    In an assist you always count on the fact that the thetan himself
would, if he could, do the right thing. If you work on that postulate
you will never be wrong. Get the idea that it is something else trying
to do the wrong thing. The keynote of a thetan is order.

    Where you are giving an assist to one person, you put things in the
environment into an orderly state as the first step, unless you are
trying to stop a pumping artery whereby here you would use first aid.
You should understand that first aid ~always~ precedes an assist. You
should look the situation over from the standpoint of how much first aid
is required. Maybe you will find somebody with a temperature of 106
degrees. It may very well be that he needs to lie down and be covered
up, and though antibiotics are much overrated, he might be better off
with a shot of one of these than with an assist at that time.

    Auditing will not shut off a pumping artery, but a tourniquet will.
If you are going into the zone of accidents, you are going to be in the
vicinity of a great deal of destruction and chaos, and you are very
foolish not to have your Red Cross First Aid Certificate. You may often
have to find some method of controlling, handling and directing
personnel who get in your way before you can render an assist. You might
just as well realize that an assist requires that you control the entire
environment and personnel associated with the assist if necessary.

    An assist is auditing on several dynamics. It is, therefore, much
harder to do than auditing in a formal room as it requires presence. You
must bring yourself to face the fact that you have to give enough
presence and enough control to enough dynamics to bring the environment
into a compliance with your postulate. If you postulate that somebody is
going to pick up his bed and walk, then you have to be willing to move
and be capable of moving around the people who are going to watch him
pick up his bed and walk.

                ASSISTS 431

    A good example of an assist is this: Somebody is washing dishes in
the kitchen. There is a horrendous crash, the person comes down all over
the sink, hits the floor as she is going down, and grabs the butcher
knife as it falls. You go in and say, "Well, let me fix that up." One of
the first things you would have to do is to wind some bandage around the
hand to stop the bleeding. Part of the first aid would be to pick up the
dishes and put them back on the sink, sweep the pieces together into a
more orderly semblance. This is the first symptom of control. She
becomes introverted into the cut to the point that she wouldn't
particularly notice what you were doing. But you relieve the anxiety
that all her blood is pouring out; your first attention to the case is
attention to the environment.

    Next you would make her sit down. To remove her from the scene of
the accident is not as desirable as auditing her there. That is directly
contrary perhaps to what you believe but it is true. That is why you
bring a little order into the environment. You position her and then you
are ready for techniques. It is quite remarkable as you have manifested
order in a much wider sphere than a cut hand in order to bring about a
healing of the cut hand. If you understand that your responsibility
always extends much wider than the immediate zone of commotion, you
never miss. If you bring order to the wider environment you also bring
it to the narrower environment. If you bring it into the narrow
environment, you also bring it to the wider environment. It is a
gradient scale of how much order you can bring.

    In processing, you have to control or direct attention, objects,
person, or thoughts of the injured person. If you are really good on the
subject of assists, you will direct an additional thing: his
knowingness. You can control a man's knowingness rather easily, but it
is hard to see it. About the first thing that you can observe about
somebody is his person. You are trying to straighten it out. Don't think
that even though you have this person sitting down that you have
straightened it out because it is still messed up. There is something
that you can straighten out easily--and that is his attention. If you
could heighten his attention and his knowingness at the same time, you
would really be in

                432 BOOK THREE

wonderful circumstances. You always shift and direct his attention,
hence locational processing.

    Because he is injured you are not going to move his person around.
You have got his attention. Don't try to shift his thoughts around at
first because they are dispersed and chaotic. This leaves you his
attention only.

    If someone is in terrible condition and he is really writhing
around, and you want to render an assist, you don't wait until he stops
writhing. He is liable to stop writhing dead. What you do with him is
direct his attention. You say "~Shut your eyes and look at my fingers.~"
You press your fingers hard enough so that he can't help but put his
attention on them. In this wise you can always have a successful assist
because assists all come under the heading of control. The beingness of
the person and his presence makes the control possible. So part of
control is always presence, identity, person, the one who takes charge
and has things under control. When you are able to control his
attention, his body and thoughts, then he will be in session and you are
no longer doing an assist.

    Assists dominantly require that you direct the attention of the
preclear and dispose his person one way or the other and eventually take
over control of his thoughts on the subject. But by the time you have
all these three in line, you are no longer doing an assist.

    So what you really do is an assist up to the time the person can
handle the incident or pain. Then put him in a more favorable
environment and give him auditing. So the assist is what you do on the
street, and auditing is what you do in the auditing room when he comes
to you after your assist has been successful.

    There are three main types of assists used by Dianetic Auditors.

    They are:

    1. Contact Assist
    2. Touch Assist
    3. Dianetic Assist.

    They are quite different from each other.

                ASSISTS 433

    They are VERY effective when properly done.

    A severe injury or illness case can be run on all three and SHOULD
BE.

    If the handling is very soon after injury, burns do not blister,
breaks heal in days, bruises vanish.

    But to obtain such results it is necessary that the C/S and auditor
or auditor alone know and RESPECT the assist tech.

    Every assist must end with an F/N (at examiner or checked on a
meter).

    Contact Assist. Done off the meter at the physical mest universe
location of the injury. EP--Pain gone. Cognition. F/N.

    Touch Assist. Done off the meter by an auditor on the pc's body.
EP--Pain gone. Cognition. F/N.

    Dianetic Assist. Done in session on the meter. EP--Pain gone.
Cognition. F/N.

    An unconscious pc can be audited off a meter by taking his hand and
having him touch nearby things like his pillow, the floor, etc. or his
body without hurting an injured part.

    A person in a coma for months can be brought around by doing this
daily.

    One tells them a hand signal like "Press my hand twice for 'Yes,'
once for 'No"' and one can get through to them, asking questions and
getting "Yes" and "No" hand responses. They usually respond with this,
if faintly, even while unconscious.

    When one has the person conscious again one can do the assists.

    FIRST AID RULES APPLY TO INJURED PERSONS.

    IN MAKING THEM TOUCH SOMETHING THAT ~WAS~
MOVING, STOP IT FIRST.

    IN MAKING THEM TOUCH THINGS THAT WERE HOT,
COOL THEM FIRST.

    WHEN POSSIBLE MAKE THEM HOLD THE THINGS THEY
WERE HOLDING, IF ANY, WHILE DOING A CONTACT ASSIST.

    IF AFTER A TOUCH OR CONTACT ASSIST THEY DON'T F/N
WHEN TAKEN TO OR GIVEN AN EXAM,

                434 BOOK THREE

CHECK FOR OVERRUN AND IF NO F/N TAKE THEM
AWAY AND COMPLETE THE ASSIST.

    DIANETIC ASSISTS ARE RUN TRIPLE.


¤Contact Assist¤


    Do not run a touch assist when the exact spot is available for a
CONTACT ASSIST.

    In a CONTACT ASSIST you take the person to the exact spot where the
accident occurred. Then have him duplicate exactly what happened at the
time of the incident.

    For instance, if he hit his head on a pipe, have him go through the
action of putting his head against the exact spot on the pipe, having
the pipe also touch the exact spot on his head. He should be duplicating
the whole thing. That is, the rest of his body should be in the position
it was at the time of the accident. If the object is hot, you let it
cool first, if the current was on you turn it off before doing the
assist.

    If he had a tool in his hand, or was using one, he should be going
through the same motions with it.

    Have the person repeat this several times, until the somatic occurs
again. It will occur and blow off when he exactly duplicates it.

    Ask him how it's going; has the somatic occurred? End when you get
this phenomena of it turning on and blowing off.


¤Practical Drill¤


    Name: Contact Assist Unbull-baited.

    Commands: None.

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to do a contact assist.

    Position: As needed.

    Training Stress: This drill is done between a student auditor and
coach. At first it is not bull-baited. The coach mocks up having hurt
himself on something in the area. The student auditor starts the session
and runs a standard contact assist with the coach acting as pc. This
section of the drill is done until the student auditor can very
standardly do all the actions of the contact assist. The coach gives the

                ASSISTS 435

"Start," flunks, and "That's it." He gives the student auditor a pass
when he can do this auditing action with all TRs in and with correct
procedure.

    When the above is being done correctly and has been passed by the
coach, light bull-baiting building up on a realistic gradient is used by
the coach. Be sure and keep in the data on coaching. The student auditor
is passed when he can maintain session control and get the contact
assist accomplished to EP successfully.

    Steps of a contact assist:

    1. Take the pc to the physical mest universe location of the injury.
R-factor: "We are going to do a contact assist."

    2. Keep your talking to a minimum.

    3. Have him go through the same motions as when he had the accident.
Put him in the same position he was in when the injury occurred. If he
was holding anything have him hold it the same way. Make the injured
member gently contact the place where it was hurt. Do this over and over
until the pain turns on again and then blows (a sudden pain will fly
off) and the pc cognites with VGIs.

    4. If burned on a hot stove or engine that was running, be sure to
turn it off and wait until it's cold before you do the assist.

    5. When the pain is gone, accompanied by a cognition, and VGIs, put
the pc on a meter and it should F/N. If not check for overrun and if no
F/N go back and flatten the assist. (The E-meter should be reasonably
nearby.) EP--Pain gone, cognition, F/N.


¤Touch Assist¤


    If the spot is not available, you do a TOUCH ASSIST. This is run on
both sides of the body. It is run until the pain is gone, cognition,
F/N.

    It is run around the injury and especially below the injury; that
is, further from the head than the injury.

    It is a good idea to have the person shut his eyes so that he is
definitely looking "through" the area of the injury in order to tell
that you are touching him.

    Just use a simple command like "Feel my finger. Thank you," giving
the command first and then touching.

                436 BOOK THREE

    Before or after the assist, depending on the seriousness of the
injury, report the injury to the Medical Officer. Report also the
assist, length of time, somatics, nature of the injury, how it was run
and on whom.

    TO GET REAL RESULTS EVERY TIME, I gave a demonstration of a touch
assist to some medical officers. They had been told by someone it needed
case supervisor clearance and by another that it had to be done by a
Class IV auditor. Both of these data were false.

    Being alerted that students were learning how to do a touch assist
on a doll with no idea of balance, I wish to make sure the correct data
is known, so this tech, very ~powerful~ when CORRECTLY DONE, is better
understood as to exact use.

    Normal ~errors~ in a touch assist are: (1) To not go to extremities,
(2) To not equalize balance to both sides, (3) To not carry through
(they go to release point only), (4) To not repeat on following days if
needed.

    When a person stubs his toe, the other toe is where it locks up.

    There is a balance of the nerve energy of the body on 12 nerve
channels going up and down the spine. The type of energy in the body
travels at ten feet a second.

    The energy from a shock will make a standing wave in the body.

    The brain is a shock cushion, that is all. It absorbs the shock from
a large amount of energy. The neuron-synapse is a disconnection.

    A wave one way will have a wave reacting the other way. In the
sympathetic system the wave locks up on both sides of the body. So do
the assist thoroughly on both sides. The purpose of a touch assist is to
unlock the standing waves, which are small electronic ridges of nervous
energy that are not flowing as they should.

    You can unlock an impulse in the leg and it can get into the spine
and lock up. So this is where you get the chiropractor fixing people.
But the nerves are "telling the muscles" to hold the bone out of place.

    A shock puts, via the nerves, a permanent command into a set of
muscles, with all different "commands" going

                ASSISTS 437

out from the shock. The system functions through stops to try to hold
that shock back. It's actually nerve to muscle to bone.

    Light massage along nerve channels will get the muscles unlocked to
permit the bone to go in place.

    The wave is slowed down as it goes through the body. There are
"brain cells" at each joint absorbing the shock.

    When enough heavy charge goes through a nerve it stops passing the
charge through and just builds it up. A touch assist will bring the flow
back and the suspended pain, cold, electrical charges and muscle command
will blow through.

    A shock impulse goes tearing down the nerve in huge volume,
accumulating nodules of standing waves all over the body, trying to stop
the nerve impulse. The nerve goes into apathy with the huge volume of
impulse. Like 100,000 volts of electricity over a small wire, something
goes.

    With auditing you are bringing back the nerve "from apathy" up
through the tone scale. Like getting apathy of nerve up through the pain
explosion. So the touch assist is short sessioned and always balanced,
and must go to corresponding extremities.

    At first the person might just get an awareness of the area, then
maybe after the third or fourth assist (third or fourth day or many more
days with one done each day) there is a large jolt that will go through.

    The comm cycle is not as important in the touch assist as it is with
thetan auditing. But it must be present. Here we are dealing with the
body. You give the command, get an answer from the patient and
acknowledge each time.


¤Touch Assist Demo Done on Arthur Hubbard¤


    My 16-year-old son, Arthur, had a wound on his right foot, right
side, at ball of foot location, which was not healing quickly.

    Arthur was sitting on a chair with his legs straight and feet on my
knees, (one foot on each knee) and hands palms down on his shins. I made
sure he was comfortable.

                438 BOOK THREE

    The target of this touch assist was the pain in the wound in the
side of the foot; the extremity was the top end of the big toe. Both
hands and especially fingertips were also extremities.

    (R-factor): "I'm going to touch you like this." (I touched Arthur's
foot.) "When you feel it well tell me, okay?"

    "Okay."

    "Feel my finger."

    "Yes."

    "Good."

    This was done ~rapidly~ alternating from one side of the body to the
other, one command and answer and acknowledgment for each touch; assist
done on each toe back and forth, left to right, one for one touch on one
side, touch on other side. Up foot, each toe, over to hands, left hand
to right hand, one touch for one. This was done for several minutes.

    I then had Arthur bend over to get to the spine. He said he had some
numbness in the lower spine when I asked about this area. I then did the
spine, touching three inches from the spine on one side, then to three
inches on the other side alternately, up the head and around the neck
and head.

    On inquiring "How's that?" Arthur said, "Better," gave a cognition
on his pants being the same ones he had on during the accident, and we
ended off.

    Arthur, during the assist, had numbness in the kidney/back area.
This is the midpoint between the extremities on the sympathetic system.
In the future if the assist hadn't been done he might have had kidney
trouble.

    The impulse locks up in the spine, so you have to do the spine too
to release that charge.

    The extremity is beyond the point of the body injury. Really
handling the extremity furthest from the injury, the legs, would strip
the blocked energy out (if you get the extremity). (During the assist I
did not do the legs, or arms, only toes, feet, hands, fingers and back.)

    The way you run the touch assist is: give the command, then touch.

    ~Do not touch and then give the command as it's backwards~.

                ASSISTS 439

    ~This requires a drill:~

    "~Feel my finger~"

    ~Then touch a point~.

    The thing that's wrong with each school of healing is that it says
it can do the job totally. It can't. An example of this is a Swedish
masseur saying he can cure a person. But in addition to massage, let us
say, the person doesn't eat. It's not part of the cure, so doesn't cure.

    The doctor's bug is diagnosis. He is even setting up a computer
system in one country to figure out what is wrong with the person. But
they don't have logic to program from so they won't make it.

    There is a big hole in Adele Davis's book on dieting. She doesn't
talk enough about iodine in diets, but that is what activates thyroid
which burns up the food. So her reducing diets don't always reduce.

    If you block out the fields of knowledge you won't get anywhere.

    To cure things a doctor should use a number of things (schools of
healing) and do each one right.

    Regard the body with a question mark in your mind.

    There is a "brain" at each joint. This is why acupuncture works. One
can paralyze a whole body area with it by touching these minor "brains"
with a needle. It can do other things as well if you know how.

    Mesmerism is no relation to hypnotism at all. Mesmerism is animal
magnetism. It's a physiological rapport. Not a concentration on mental
but on mental-physiological.

    To have rapport with something you can ~be~ it.

    Hypnotism is the reduction and absorption of mental power of the
person. In hypnotism one takes over the person. The subject has no
control.

    When doing physical healing, if you stroke sympathetically (both
sides) alternately inducing a rhythmic motion which is monotonous, you
can mesmerize a person.

    In mesmerism there is an imposition on feeling. If you mesmerize a
person and pinch your back, he will get red in the same place and feel
the pain of the pinch. This is physiological rapport. No words are said
during mesmerism.

                440 BOOK THREE

    In assists you ~don't~ want rapport; ~avoid~ a rhythm; on stroking
in massages keep the person talking; keep him saying "Yes" and you
acknowledging in an assist. Keep him in comm with you. That is why you
use the comm cycle, or else all feeling can go out of the body. The comm
cycle ~prevents~ a mesmeric trance occurring that would leave the
patient in rapport.

    Rapport is mutual feelingness.

    In an assist (1) keep talking, (2) break rhythms, (3) end off. This
is important.

    Mesmerism is the transfer of the feeling and fault of operator to
patient. A woman doing massages quietly and rhythmically could be giving
her patient her disjointed hip. A doctor with bad eyesight can make his
patients worse or vice versa possibly, if he had good eyesight, the
patient could get good eyesight.


¤Touch Assist an Improvement on Spinal Adjustment¤


    Spinal adjustments can be painful if done when the injured person is
out of communication with the afflicted area. Snapping or popping a disk
into place--if it is out of place--~is~ the correct action, but can in
some cases result in additional shock and a strained or pulled muscle.

    The following method has been found to work successfully with no
uncomfortable aftereffects.

    Between each two bones of the spinal column there is a soft cushion
called the INTERVERTEBRAL DISK. It serves as a ball bearing and shock
absorber.

    A sudden shock such as a fall, a jerk of the body or the lifting of
a heavy object with the strain on the back may cause the intervertebral
disk to be pinched or pushed out of place.

    Symptoms of this may be pain, dull or sharp, directly on the spinal
column or along any of the connecting muscles of the back. A numbness or
"buzzing" sensation may be experienced on the backside below the small
of the back.

    The slipped or pinched disk may not always be detected by running
the fingers along the spinal column, but CAN be detected by lightly
running the hand or fingers along either

                ASSISTS 441

side of the spinal column. The reason for this is that the disk itself
is very small and may not be felt, but the muscles and ligaments
connected to the spine will have strain on them and may be cramped or
knotted. This is the reason there may be pain along these muscles and
not directly on the spinal column. This can be easily felt with the
lightest of touches along either side of the spine.

    To handle, have the injured person recline on a flat surface.

    Give him a standard touch assist, with his agreement.

    Afterwards, also with his agreement, check to see if there is a
pinched or slipped disk. It will more than likely be detected by the
presence of a "swollen" muscle or knot on either side of a particular
section of the spinal column.

    RELAX THE MUSCLE. Use a light, circular motion, alternated with a
sliding motion towards the spinal column. This is the most important
action. It is the muscle that is PHYSICALLY holding the disk out of
place.

    It is usually during the action of relaxing the muscle that the disk
slides back into place. As the muscle loosens up, you will be able to
feel the disk which is out of place. If it has not slipped into place
with the above action, you may GENTLY slide it sideways into place. It
will go easily, without a "snap," and the person will feel instant
relief.

    NOTE: WHEN THERE IS NO IMPROVEMENT BY GENTLE
TREATMENT PROPERLY DONE AS ABOVE, HAVE THE SPINE
X-RAYED AS IT MAY BE FRACTURED AND IN NEED
OF MEDICAL SETTING.

    The Touch Assist drill follows:

    Name: Touch Assist Unbull-baited.

    Commands: "Feel my finger." "Thank you."

    Purpose: To train the student auditor in the procedures of doing a
touch assist.

    Position: Pc seated. For this drill a doll is used. The student
auditor as needed, standing, kneeling, or seated to accomplish the
process.

    Training Stress: The student has an E-meter available for use at the
end of the session. The student auditor starts the session and runs a
standard session on the doll, doing a full session admin at the end. The
drill is passed when the

                442 BOOK THREE

student can do a standard touch assist. Flunks are given for out TRs or
any incorrect procedure. (See steps below.)

    Name: Touch Assist Bull-baited.

    Commands: "Feel my finger." "Thank you." (Giving the command and
~then~ touching the point.)

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to be able to do a touch
assist under any distractions of the pc and to maintain full session
procedure and accomplish the desired EP.

    Position: The coach pretends that he has an injury or pain and tells
the auditor where it is. The student auditor then does a standard touch
assist. The "pc" coach bull-baits the student auditor using "fruit"
words or moving in such a way as to give the student auditor experience
with handling physical originations and verbal originations of the
preclear. Flunks are given for any improper commands, procedure, comm
lags, break in TRs or for improper session admin. The coach does the
"Start," flunking or "That's it." The student auditor is passed when he
is confident of how to handle any situation the coach offers, and does a
standard touch assist to EP.

    Steps:

    1. Start of session.

    2. Find the injured part or area of pain (ask for it).

    3. Do the touch assist. Keep him in comm with you--keep talking.
Avoid a rhythm.

    a. Make sure the pc is as comfortable as possible and that the areas
you need to work with are available.

    b. Give your pc the R-factor that you are going to touch him with
your finger and that you want him to tell you when he feels it.

    c. Tell pc "Close your eyes." Acknowledge him when he does.

    d. Give the command "Feel my finger." Then touch. Get an answer from
the pc and acknowledge him each time.

    e. Continue touching him, and acknowledging him when he says he has
felt it. Get nearer to the injury or pain on a gradient.

    Follow the nerve channels. Head for the extremities. This is done
rapidly.

                ASSISTS 443

    f. Always touch the same area on the other side of the body--one
touch on one side--for one touch on the other side.

    g. If the pc originates, acknowledge and continue. Keep him in good
comm with you.


¤Dianetic Assists¤


    There is everything to be said for correct medical treatment in the
handling of the sick and insane.

    "Insanity" is most often the suppressed agony of actual physical
illness and injury.

    To "treat" this agony with shock and "brain operations" is a
Nuremberg type offense and is indictable as mayhem or manslaughter.

    The medical treatment of "insanity" requires sure awareness by the
patient of his whereabouts and present time. These are usually quite
unbearable so he has sunk into the past to escape the agony of the
present.

    The ~touch assist~ given to such injured persons permits healing to
occur by restoring the person to the present and his whereabouts to some
degree.

    Healing after medical treatment might not occur rapidly if the
"insane" or chronically ill person remains in the past, unable to
confront the present.

    Thus the touch assist speeds and often permits healing after medical
treatment and sometimes in minor injuries and illness permits the doctor
to accomplish healing without further treatment.

    The touch assist brings the patient's attention to injured or
affected body areas. When attention is withdrawn from them, so is
circulation, nerve flows and energy which for one thing limits nutrition
to the area and for another permits the drainage of waste products. Some
ancient healers attributed remarkable flows and qualities to the "laying
on of hands." Probably the workable element in this was simply
heightening awareness of the affected area and restoring the physical
communication factors.

    The ~contact assist~ is remarkable when it can be done. The patient
is taken to the area where the injury occurred

                444 BOOK THREE

and the injured member made to gently contact it several times. A sudden
pain will fly off and the injury if minor lessens or vanishes. This is
again a physical communication factor. The body member seems to have
withdrawn from that exact spot in the physical universe.

    The restoration of awareness is often necessary before healing can
occur.

    The prolongation of a chronic injury occurs in the absence of
physical communication with the affected area or with the location of
the spot of injury in the physical universe.

    The ~auditing assist~ is done by a trained auditor using an E-meter.

    It consists of "running out" the physically painful experience the
person has just undergone, accident, illness, operation or emotional
shock. This erases the "psychic trauma" and speeds healing to a
remarkable degree if done properly.

    In addition to assists there is Dianetic auditing of an acutely ill
person which handles the current and past illnesses and injuries by
erasing the "physical trauma."

    The last is a skilled activity. Practitioners who have the idea such
things do not have causes will of course fail to locate the causes.

    A sickness can be composed, let us say, of a headache, a nausea,
apathy and weariness.

    Such a sickness may be bizarre, without medical reason.

    By first getting the patient to find and say what shock occurred
when the sickness began, getting when, and getting it recounted, the
"illness" will lessen, the emotional state will alter--called a "release
of affect."

    By then finding an earlier similar instance and getting that one
dated and recounted a further release of affect may occur.

    If the good indicators, smiles, etc., do not occur in the patient,
one again asks for an earlier incident, dates it and gets it recounted.

    The phenomenon of "floating needle" on the E-meter should not be
by-passed on a physically sick person if it occurs, regardless of when,
and the patient is smiling and

                ASSISTS 445

suddenly free from symptoms, one at once desists with further auditing
on that subject and at that time.

    If no floating needle and a full release of symptoms occur, one then
traces back the remaining symptoms. Let us say the headache is now gone
due to recounting times of emotional duress. But the patient is still
slightly nauseous. One traces the nausea to earlier or other incidents.
It will vanish when found and dated.

    The apathy vanished somewhere along the way but weariness remains.
One traces the weariness to another or other incidents.

    In short one handles each manifestation of the bizarre illness until
all symptoms are gone and the patient is happy and cheerful.

    Needless to say all this requires a skilled auditor but the skill
can be acquired in a Dianetic training course, the Hubbard Standard
Dianetics Course (HSDC) at your nearest church or mission and in this
book.

    The important thing is not to tell the patient what caused it, but
to let him tell you. Otherwise the symptom suppresses.

    The approach in any of these assists is quiet, gentle, permissive,
never forcing the patient, speaking only the words required to do the
process.

    The temporarily insane by reason of emotional shock, where no
medical illness exists should be permitted rest and should then be
handled by an assist as above or normal Dianetic auditing. Most often,
rest and no further harassment result in a return to sanity in a short
time such as a few days, but not in a terror atmosphere such as a
psychiatric asylum where the patient is at risk of being hurt or killed.
Electric shock prolongs the condition and brain surgery is of course not
treatment but murder, as at best it deprives the person of his
coordination and shortens his life. The occasional and rare brain tumor
is of course an exception, but this is a medical not a psychiatric
matter, no matter what manifestations the person exhibits. Most
medically ill people do exhibit symptoms of mental derangement at some
stage of their illness.

                446 BOOK THREE

    The acceleration of healing of medical illness or injury such as
broken bones or the aftereffects of delivery or operations can be
accomplished by the Dianetic auditing of the resulting trauma soon after
full medical treatment or attention. The improvement factor is about
one-third the normal time of recovery by some thousands of test cases.

    Such auditing is done by a usual Dianetic procedure.


¤Antibiotics¤


    A pc on antibiotics ~should~ be given Dianetic auditing.

    Very often antibiotics do not function unless the illness or injury
is also audited.

    The basic failures of antibiotics apparently stem from a traumatic
condition which prevents the medical treatment from functioning.

    When a person is medically treated for an illness, it is best to
back up the action with auditing.

    Sometimes the patient is too ill to be fully audited. It is
difficult to audit someone who is running a temperature. In such a case,
let the antibiotics bring the temperature down before auditing. But if
the temperature does not come down, in the interest of the patient's
recovery, auditing should be done.

    A patient will sometimes respond to commands even when "unconscious"
if you tell them to squeeze your hand to acknowledge they have done the
command.

    Years ago the auditing of unconscious persons was worked out and
successfully done.

    Needless to say, processing any sick person requires the most exact,
careful auditing, strictly by the Auditor's Code.

    A person who has been operated on or medically or dentally treated,
or a mother who has just delivered a child, should have the engram
audited out ~as soon as possible~ by Dianetic R3R.

    The aftereffects of anaesthetics or the presence of drugs or
antibiotics is to be neglected.

    The usual action is to:

    1. Get them medical treatment.

                ASSISTS 447

    2. Audit them as soon as possible on the illness or injury.

    3. Audit them again when they are well.

    4. Get them a review if they seem to be showing much later
aftereffects despite Dianetic auditing.

    HEAVY DOSES OF VITAMIN B1, B-COMPLEX and C should
accompany all such auditing actions.

    All this comes under the heading of saving lives.

    At the very least it saves slow recovery and bad aftereffects and
resultant psychosomatic illnesses.

    Dianetics is the first development since the days of Rome that
changes and improves the RATE OF HEALING.

    Dianetics is also the first development that removes traumatic
barriers from the path of healing.

    Medicines and endocrine compounds quite often are effective in the
presence of Dianetic auditing which were once inexplicably ineffective
in many cases. The barrier to healing was the engram. With that removed,
healing can occur.

    Any barriers or objections to using Dianetics to assist the
effectiveness of medicine or to increase the rate of or even secure
effective recovery place the patient at risk as certainly as failing to
use antiseptics.

    Such objections can be dismissed as stemming from barbaric or
superstitious mentalities or from motives too base to be decent.

    It would not be possible to count the number of lives Dianetics has
saved. Few human betterment activities have been so widely successful
and so uniformly helpful as Dianetics.

    The following drills should be done to become proficient in auditing
assists.

    Name: Dianetic Assist Unbull-baited.
          Dianetic Assist Bull-baited.

    (~Use basic drill format~.)

    Steps:

    1. Make sure your pc (coach) has thoroughly cleared the words and
commands of R3R.

                448 BOOK THREE

    1a. R-factor: "We are going to do a Dianetic assist on your recent
injury." (Or whatever the nature of it is.)

    Flow 1

    2. "Locate the time when you had/were (_item_). "
Have the pc locate the incident of the injury.

    3. Run R3R. The "earlier" command changes to "Is there an earlier
similar incident?"

    4. Run to EP. Indicate F/N.

    Flow 2

    1. "Now we are going to run flow 2 on this."

    2. "Locate a time you caused another to have/to be (_item_)."

    3. Run R3R. The "earlier" command is "Is there an earlier similar
incident?"

    4. Run to EP. Indicate the F/N.

    Flow 3

    1. "We are going to run flow 3 on this."

    2. "Locate a time others caused others to have/to be (_item_)."

    3. Run R3R. The "earlier" command is, "Is there an earlier similar
incident?"

    4. Run to EP. Indicate the F/N.

    Dianetic Assist Part B.

    1. Clear the question used in Step 2 below.

    2. List "What attitudes are connected with (_injury_or_incident_)."
Note down any reads as the pc says the item.

    2a. Take the largest reading item or first LFBD item.

    3. If pc is interested, run it R3R to EP triple flow.

    4. Run all reading items with pc interest R3R. Exhaust the list.

    5. Reassess any remaining unrun items to see if they now read. If
they do, run them. Check for any more items the pc has to add to the
list, and mark them down with their reads.

    6. Repeat Steps 2a to 5.

    7. When no more items to add and no further items reading but there
are some unrun items on the list, null with "suppress" and "invalidate."

    8. Run any now reading items.

    9. Exhaust the list.

                ASSISTS 449

    10. Repeat Steps 1-9 handling the emotions, sensations
and pains connected with (_injury_or_incident_). Handle each area
separately and in this exact order.


¤How to Make a Person Sober¤


    There is another interesting piece of technology I developed: It is
the use of locational havingness to make a person sober.

    This process is not used to cure a person of alcoholism. The
development of prior assessment* in Standard Dianetics handles the
conditions that caused a person to be alcoholic.

    The use of locational havingness will make a drunken person sober in
a very few minutes and the cause of his need for alcohol can be audited
out later. As society currently has no technology for handling the drunk
who is an embarrassment to the police, his family, and often to himself,
this process has social value and may serve as a line of co-operation
and assistance to the police.

    The locational havingness process is simply the command "Look at
that . . . (room object)." Use very good TR-0. A drunk is usually
considered somewhat unconfrontable and he himself certainly cannot
confront. One thing he cannot confront is an empty glass. He always
refills it if it is empty.

    Repeat the command, each time pointing out a room object, as often
as required to bring the person to sobriety. Do not Q and A with the
frequent comment "What object!" Just get the command carried out,
acknowledge, and give the next command.

    DO NOT EVER GET ANGRY WITH OR STRIKE A DRUNK
WHATEVER THE PROVOCATION.

    We are not particularly in the business of handling the drunk. But
we are in the field of helping our fellow men, in a society where the
only alternative is a night in the clink and a fine, which is not
desired by either the police or the intoxicated person.

    Another assist every auditor should know how to do is "How to handle
an unconscious person." The drill follows:

    Name: How to Handle an Unconscious Person.

    Purpose: To teach the student auditor how to handle an unconscious
person.

                450 BOOK THREE

    Position: Coach lying down as if unconscious. Student auditor
standing and as needed.

    Commands: "You lie that body on that floor." "Thank you."

    Training Stress: The coach acts as though unconscious. The auditor
runs through the steps, as follows, until the coach is handled. Flunks
are given for out TRs, incorrect procedure, or failure to follow through
to completion of the action successfully. The drill is passed when the
coach is confident the student auditor can correctly handle this
auditing action.

    Steps:

    1. Observe the person and ensure he is not lying in such a way as to
cause damage. Make sure nothing is in his mouth and throat, and stop any
bleeding.

    2. Form a command to fit the environment--for instance--"You lie
that body on that bed, street, etc."

    3. Simply tell him what you are going to do. The process gets done
by duplicating what the person is doing and putting him at cause.

    For example: "You lie that body on that floor."

    "Thank you."

    "You lie that body on that floor."

    "Thank you." etc.

    4. Tell him to squeeze your hand when he does it.

    5. Don't end just because be opens his eyes. Keep going until he
stabilizes out and preferably cognites with VGIs.

    (Note: You can also use a command like "Touch that pillow" or
"floor" or "body"--without hurting an injured part.


¤Assist Summary¤


    Injuries, operations, delivery of babies, severe illnesses and
periods of intense emotional shock all deserve to be handled with
thorough and complete assists.

    Medical examination and diagnosis should be sought where needed, and
where treatment is routinely successful, medical treatment should be
obtained. As an assist can at times cover up an actual injury or broken
bone, no chances

                ASSISTS 451

should be taken, especially if the condition does not easily respond. In
other words where something is merely thought to be a slight sprain, to
be on the safe side an X-ray should be obtained, particularly if it does
not at once respond. An assist is not a substitute for medical treatment
but is complementary to it. It is even doubtful if full healing can be
accomplished by medical treatment alone and it is certain that an assist
greatly speeds recovery. In short, one should realize that physical
healing does not take into account the being and the repercussions on
the spiritual beingness of the person.

    Injury and illnesses are ~predisposed~ by the spiritual state of the
person. They are ~precipitated~ by the being himself as a manifestation
of his current spiritual condition. And they are ~prolonged~ by any
failure to fully handle the spiritual factors associated with them.

    The causes of ~predisposition~, ~precipitation~ and ~prolongation~
are basically the following:

    1. Postulates
    2. Engrams
    3. Secondaries
    4. ARC breaks with the environment, situations, others or the body
part
    5. Problems
    6. Overt acts
    7. Withholds
    8. Out of communicationness.

    The purely physical facts of injuries, illnesses and stresses are
themselves incapacitating and do themselves often require physical
analysis and treatment by a doctor or nutritionist. These could be
briefly catalogued as:

    A. Physical damage to structure
    B. Disease of a pathological nature
    C. Inadequacies of structure
    D. Excessive structure
    E. Nutritional errors
    F. Nutritional inadequacies
    G. Vitamin and biocompound excesses
    H. Vitamin and biocompound deficiencies

                452 BOOK THREE

    I. Mineral excesses
    J. Mineral deficiencies
    K. Structural malfunction
    L. Erroneous examination
    M. Erroneous diagnosis
    N. Erroneous structural treatment
    O. Erroneous medication.

    There is another group which belongs to both the spiritual and
physical divisions. These are:

    i.   Allergies
    ii.  Addictions
    iii. Habits
    iv. Neglect
    v.  Decay.

    Any of these things in any of the three groups can be a cause of
nonoptimum personal existence.

    We are not discussing here the full handling of any of these groups
or what optimum state can be attained or maintained. But it should be
obvious that there is a level below which life is not very tolerable.
How well a person can be or how efficient or how active is another
subject entirely.

    Certainly life is not very tolerable to a person who has been
injured or ill; to a woman who has just delivered a baby, to a person
who has just suffered a heavy emotional shock. And there is no reason a
person should remain in such a low state, particularly for weeks, months
or years when he or she could be remarkably ~assisted~ to recover in
hours, days or weeks.

    It is in fact a sort of practiced cruelty to insist by neglect that
person continue on in such a state when one can learn and practice and
obtain relief for such a person.

    We are mainly concerned with the first group, 1-8. The group is not
listed in the order that it is done but in the order that it has
influence upon the being.

    The idea has grown that one handles injuries with touch assists
only. This is true for someone who as an auditor has only a smattering
of Dianetics and Scientology. It is true for someone in such pain or
state of case (which would have to be pretty bad) that he cannot respond
to actual auditing.

                ASSISTS 453

    But a Dianeticist or Scientologist really has no business "having
only a smattering" of auditing skills that could save his or the lives
of others. And the case is very rare who cannot experience proper
auditing.

    The actual cause of not handling such conditions is, then, to be
found as ~iv. Neglect~. And where there is neglect, ~v. Decay~ is very
likely to follow.

    One does not have to be a medical doctor to take someone to a
medical doctor. And one does not have to be a medical doctor to observe
that medical treatment may not be helping the patient. And one does not
have to be a medical doctor to handle things caused spiritually by the
being himself.

    Just as there are two sides to healing--the spiritual and the
structural of physical, there are also two states that can be
spiritually attained. The first of these states might be classified as
"humanly tolerable." Assists come under this heading. The second is
"spiritually improved." Grade auditing comes under this second heading.

    Any minister (and this has been true as long as there has been a
subject called religion) is bound to relieve his fellow being of
anguish. There are many ways a minister can do this.

    Administering an assist is not engaging in healing. It is certainly
not engaging in treatment. What it is doing is ~assisting the individual
to heal himself or be healed by another agency by removing his reasons
for precipitating, and prolonging his condition and lessening his
predisposition to further injure himself or remain in an intolerable
condition~.

    This is entirely outside the field of "healing" as envisioned by the
medical doctor and by actual records of results is very, very far beyond
the capability of psychology, psychiatry and "mental treatment" as
practiced by them.

    In short, the assist is strictly and entirely in the field of the
spirit and is the traditional province of religion.

    A minister should realize the power which lies in his hands and his
potential skills when trained. He has this to give in the presence of
suffering: he can make life tolerable.

                454 BOOK THREE

    He can also shorten a term of recovery and may even make recovery
possible when it might not be otherwise.

    When a minister confronts someone who has been injured or ill,
operated upon or who has suffered a grave emotional shock, he should be
equipped to do and should do the following:

    A ~contact assist~ where possible and where indicated until the
person has re-established his communication with the physical universe
site. To F/N.

    A ~touch assist~ until the person has re-established communication
with the physical part or parts affected. To F/N.

    ~Handle any ARC break~ that might have existed at the time (a) with
the environment, (b) with another, (c) with others, (d) with himself,
(e) with the body part or the body, and (f) with any failure to recover
at once. Each to F/N.

    ~Handle any problem~ the person may have had (a) at the time of
illness or injury, (b) subsequently due to his or her condition. Each to
F/N.

    ~Handle any overt act~ the person may feel he or she committed, (a)
to self, (b) to the body, (c) to another, and (d) to others. Each to
F/N.

    ~Handle any withhold~ (a) the person might have had at the time, (b)
any subsequent withhold, and (c) any having to withhold the body from
work or others or the environment due to being physically unable to
approach it.

    ~Handle any secondary~, which is to say emotional reactions, before,
during or after the situation. This must be run from the first
intimation something was wrong or going to happen or being told
something had happened. This is by chain to F/N. And then flow 2 to F/N,
and then flow 3 to F/N.

    ~Handle any engram~ of actual physical duress. Run flow 1 by chain
to F/N. Then flow 2 to F/N. Then flow 3 to F/N. It is understood here
that flow 1 was the physical incident itself, not necessarily something
done to the person but as something that happened to him or her.

    ~Present time:~ An injured or sick person is out of present time.
Thus running ~havingness~ in every assist

                ASSISTS 455

session is vital. This not only remedies havingness but also brings the
preclear to present time.

    ~Before-after:~ Where an injured or ill pc is so stuck that he has a
fixed picture that does not move, one can jar it loose by asking him to
recall a time before the incident and then asking him to recall a time
after it. This will "jar the engram loose" and change the stuck point.

    ~Unconsciousness:~ A pc can be audited even if in a coma. The
processes are objective, not significance processes. One process is to
use his hand to reach and withdraw from an object such as a pillow or
blanket. One makes the hand do it while giving the commands. One can
even arrange a "signal system" where the pc is in a coma and cannot talk
by holding his hand and telling him to squeeze one's hand once for yes,
twice for no. It is astonishing that the pc will often respond and he
can be questioned this way.

    Where a person is injured, given a contact or touch assist and then
medical examination and treatment, he is given the remainder as soon as
he is able to be audited. The drug "five days" does not need to apply.
But where the person has been given an assist over drugs, one must later
come back to the case when he is off drugs and run the drug part out or
at least make sure that nothing was submerged by the drugs. It is not
uncommon for a person to be oblivious of certain parts of a treatment or
operation at the time of initial auditing, only to have a missing piece
of the incident pop up days, months or even years later. ~This~ is the
reason injuries or operations occasionally seem to persist despite a
full assist: a piece of it was left unhandled due to a drugged condition
during the operation; such bits may come off unexpectedly in routine
auditing on some other apparently disrelated chain.

    It can happen that a person is in the midst of some grade auditing
at the time of an injury or illness or receiving an emotional shock. The
question arises as to whether or not to disrupt the grade auditing to
handle the situation. It is a difficult question. But certainly the
person cannot go on with grade auditing while upset or ill. The usual
answer is to give a full assist and repair the case to bridge it back
into the

                456 BOOK THREE

grade auditing. The question however may be complicated in that some
error in the grade auditing is also sitting there, not to cause the
illness or accident but to complicate the assist. This question is
handled fully only by study of the case by a competent case supervisor.
The point is not to let the person go on suffering while time is
consumed making a decision.

    Religion exists in no small part to handle the upsets and anguish of
life. These include spiritual duress by reason of physical conditions.

    Ministers long before the Apostles had as a part of their duties the
ministering to the spiritual anguish of their people. They have
concentrated upon spiritual uplift and betterment. But where physical
suffering impeded this course, they have acted. To devote themselves
only to the alleviation of physical duress is of course to attest that
the physical body is more important that the spiritual beingness of the
person which, of course, it is not. But physical anguish can so distract
a being that he deserts any aspirations of betterment and begins to seek
some cessation of his suffering. The specialty of the medical doctor is
the curing of physical disease or nonoptimum physical conditions. In
some instances he can do so. It is no invasion of his province to assist
the patient to greater healing potential. And ills that are solely
spiritual in nature are not medical.

    The "psych-iatrist" and "psych-ologist" on the other hand took their
very names from religion since "psyche" means soul. They, by actual
statistics, are not as successful as priests in relieving mental
anguish. But they modernly seek to do so by using drugs or hypnotism or
physical means. They damage more than they help.

    The minister has a responsibiliy to his people and those about him
to relieve suffering. He has many ways to do this. He is quite
successful in doing so and he does not need or use drugs or hypnotism or
shock or surgery or violence. Until his people are at a level where they
have no need of physical things, he has as a duty preventing their
spiritual or physical decay by relieving where he can their suffering.

    His primary method of doing so is the ~assist~.

                ASSISTS 457

    As the knowledge of how to do them exists and as the skill is easily
acquired, he actually has no right to neglect those for whose well-being
he is responsible, as only then can he lead them to higher levels of
spiritual attainment.

    Quite often an injury or illness will miraculously clear up before
one has run all the steps possible. If this is the case one should end
off any further assist.

    All auditing of injured or ill people must be kept fairly light.
Errors in TRs (such as a bad TR-4) errors in technology rebound on them
very heavily. An ill or injured person can easily be audited into a mess
if the processes are too heavy for him to handle and if the auditor is
goofing. Very exact, in-tech, good TR, good metering sessions are all
that should be tolerated in assists.

    Pregnant women should receive special attention from the Dianetic
auditor.

    The proper auditing on pregnant women consists of Dianetics and
preparatory auditing for delivery.

    This means running out all out-ruds on the subject of babies,
children and families, especially ARC breaks of long duration. Any PTS
condition should be handled. Engrams of past deliveries and the woman's
own birth should be run out as engram chains. Any bad hospital
experiences should also be handled.

    A pregnant woman should be set up for a very easy delivery.

    The delivery should be silent.

    When delivery occurs the engram is run out within twenty-four hours
of the actual delivery ~regardless of any drugs used~.

    Proper nutrition including a reduction in fattening foods is vital.
Vitamin D, calcium and magnesium must be given throughout the term of
pregnancy.

    The absence of these, the woman seeking to abort the child,
accidents, and improper medications are the causes of miscarriages.
Today's dietary problems contribute to such difficulties as are
encountered during term and delivery.

    Preparatory auditing makes delivery very easy and an erasure of the
incident of the delivery wipes out conse-

                458 BOOK THREE

quences; but only providing the nutritional and vitamin-mineral
deficiencies are not present and that the woman has not been physically
or medicinally mishandled.

    Auditing is for use. One of its important but too frequently
neglected uses is in the preparatory auditing of pregnant women and
postdelivery auditing immediately after birth.

    Auditing saves lives.

    Correct auditing used in conjunction with proper nutrition and care
results in easy delivery and miraculously fast recovery of both mother
and child. May there be many more.


¤Birth Control Pills¤


    It has been thought that birth control pills brought on dizziness
and side effects and got in the road of auditing.

    It has now been observed that where these effects occurred and the
woman

    a. changed brands
    b. changed strength or amount or
    c. both a and b

the condition vanished.

    This information is given by the medical officer.

    Therefore

    1. There is no regulation or rule which states that a woman may not
take birth control pills and

    2. There is apparently no side effects effecting auditing

and

    3. Where side effects do exist one should consult a doctor so that
brand or amount or both can be changed.

    Nothing here recommends or prevents or prescribes birth control
pills and the information is simply passed on from medical authority.

    The following is an assist summary checklist for use on an
individual pc by an auditor.

    1. ~Contact assist~ where possible and indicated.
        No set commands. Take the person to the
        exact spot where the accident occurred. Then

                ASSISTS 459

        have him duplicate exactly what happened at
        the time of the accident. Do this until the person
        has re-established communication with the
        physical universe site. F/N VGIs.__

    2. ~Touch assist~.
        "Feel my finger" to end phenomena of
        communication re-established with the
        physical part or parts affected. F/N VGIs.__

    3. ~ARC breaks~.
        a. "Did you have an ARC break at the time
        with the environment?" ARCU CDEINR E/S
        to F/N VGIs.__

        b. "Did you have an ARC break at the time
        with another?" ARCU CDEINR E/S
        to F/N VGIs.__

       c. "Did you have an ARC break at the time
       with others?" ARCU CDEINR E/S
       to F/N VGIs.__

       d. "Did you have an ARC break at the time
       with yourself?" ARCU CDEINR E/S
       to F/N VGIs.__

       e. "Did you have an ARC break at the time
       with the body part or the body?"
       ARCU CDEINR E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       f. "Did you have an ARC break at the time
       with any failure to recover at once?"
       ARCU CDEINR E/S to F/N VGIs.__

   4. ~Problems~.
       a. "Did you have a problem at the time of the
       illness/accident/injury?" Two-way comm E/S
       to F/N VGIs.__

       b. "Did you have a problem subsequently
       due to your condition?" Two-way comm E/S
       to F/N VGIs.__

                460 BOOK THREE

    5. ~Overt acts~.
        a. "Did you commit an overt on yourself?"
        Get what, E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       b. "Did you commit an overt on the body?"
       Get what, E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       c. "Did you commit an overt on another?"
       Get what, E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       d. "Did you commit an overt on others?"
       Get what, E/S to F/N VGIs.__

    6. ~Withholds~.
       a. "Did you have a withhold at the time?"
       Get what, if discreditable get who missed it,
       E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       b. "Did you have a withhold subsequently?"
       Get what, if discreditable get who missed it,
       E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       c. "Did you have to withhold the body
       from work?" E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       d. "Did you have to withhold the body
       from others?" E/S to F/N VGIs.__

       e. "Did you have to withhold the body
       from the environment?" E/S to F/N VGIs.__

    7. ~Secondaries~.
       a. List emotional reactions before the
       situation: "What emotional reactions did
       you have before the illness/accident/injury?"
       Take largest read, check interest, R3R triple.
       Exhaust the list. Use "suppress"/ "invalidate"
       on unreading items.__

       b. List emotional reactions during the
       situation: "What emotional reactions did you
       have during the illness/accident/injury?"
       Take largest read, check interest, R3R triple.
       Exhaust the list. Use "suppress"/ "invalidate"
       on unreading items.__

                ASSISTS 461

       c. List emotional reactions after the situation:
       "What emotional reactions did you have after
       the illness/accident/injury?" Take largest read,
       check interest, R3R triple. Exhaust the list.
       Use "suppress"/ "invalidate" on unreading items.__

       ~Note:~ On secondaries, the F-1 chain, be sure
       to clear with the pc ~before~ starting, that you
       want the first intimation something was wrong
       or going to happen or being told something had
       happened as the beginning of the incident.

    8. ~Engrams~ of actual physical duress.
       a. F-1: "Locate the time when you had/were
       _______." Earlier: "Is there an earlier
       similar incident?" R3R to EP.__

       b. F-2: "Locate a time you caused another to
       have/be ____." Earlier: "Is there an earlier
       similar incident?" R3R to EP.__

       c. F-3: "Locate a time others caused others
       to have/be _____." Earlier: "Is there an earlier
       similar incident?" R3R to EP.__

    9. ~Postulate two-way comm~.
       If the pc has not already discovered that he
       had decisions connected to the incident,
       two-way comm "Was there any decision
       to be hurt/ill/injured?" to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

       ~Note:~ Be careful not to invalidate the person.

    10. ~Prior confusion~.
       Two-way comm "Was there a confusion prior
       to the accident/injury/illness?" E/S to F/N,
       cognition, VGIs.__

    11. ~Mystery point~.
       Two-way comm "Was there any mysterious
       aspect of the incident?" E/S to F/N,
       cognition, VGIs.__

                462 BOOK THREE

    12. ~Suppressive presences~.
       Two-way comm "Was there any suppressive
       or invalidative presence that may have caused
       a mistake to be made or the
       accident/illness/injury to occur?"
       E/S to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

    13. ~Agreement~.
       Two-way comm "Did you agree with the incident
       or some part of the scene?"
       to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

    14. ~Protest~.
       Two-way comm "Was there any protest in
       the incident?" to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

    15. ~Prediction~.
       a. Two-way comm "How long do you expect
       to take to recover?" to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

       b. Two-way comm "Have others made any
       predictions about it?" to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

       ~Note:~ Avoid getting the person to predict it
       as a very long time by getting him to talk about
       that further.

    16. ~Losses~.
       Two-way comm "Was there anything
       you may have lost?" to F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

    17. ~Remedies (to be C/Sed first)~.
       a. High or low TA.
       To Scientology auditor to assess a C/S 53RH
       and handle. (To be done by an auditor who knows
       how to meter and can get reads.)__

       b. Illness following auditing.
       To Scientology auditor, assess a green form
       method 5 and handle. (To be done by an auditor
       who can meter and get reads.)__

                ASSISTS 463

       c. Before-after (fixed picture).
       Where the pc is so stuck that he has
       a fixed picture that does not move run:
       "Recall a time before the incident.
       What was it?" "Recall a time after the incident.
       What was it?" Alternate repetitive to end
       phenomena of picture jarred loose
       (unstuck) F/N, cognition, VGIs.__

       d. Unconscious.
       Where a pc is unconscious run:
       "Touch the _____ " (blanket, pillow, etc.)
       "Let go of the _____ ," making the hand
       do it while giving the commands and ack-
       nowledging. Run to a win, whether it be
       favorable change in skin tone or GIs or pc
       conscious.__

       ~Note:~ You can arrange a signal system
       where the pc answers your questions by
       squeezing your hand once for yes, twice for no.

       Another process for an unconscious pc is
       "Feel that _____ " (bed, pillow, etc.) using
       hand squeezes for answers, to a win.__

       e. Temperature assists.

       Version A: If the pc is too ill to get up run,
       "Look around here and find something. Hold it still"
       (Until the pc feels he can.) Alternate repetitive to F/N,
       cognition, VGIs. Check temperature before and after.
       Follow with two-way comm: "How do you feel?"
       "Have you felt like this before?" E/S to F/N,__
       cognition, VGIs.__

       Version B: Done on a pc who can, even with effort,
       walk around a room. Run "Look around here and
       find something." "Walk over

                464 BOOK THREE

       to it." "With your hands hold it still." Alter-
       nate repetitive off the meter to cognition and__
       VGIs. Then check on the meter for F/N.__

       If no F/N, rehabilitate or flatten to F/N. A
       thermometer can be used to check tempera-
       ture after the meter check for F/N.


¤Dianetic Student Rescue Intensive¤


    In working with a student, a supervisor found that engrams and
secondaries gather around the subject of study and developed some
material on it which I tested and redeveloped.

    He said:

    "The subject of study has been abound with 'authorities' and
boobytraps forever and a day, but until Ron researched this field of
human endeavor and published his findings on tapes, technical bulletins
and policy letters, nobody has EVER made any progress toward the
resolution of study itself as a problem."

    "In this very day and age we find physical punishments of students
the rule rather than the exception, and even the use of instruments like
canes, sticks, shoes and such articles in order to 'teach' a student
(create 'ARC') are accepted as normal practice."

    "The phenomena of secondaries and engrams resulting thereof, which
inhibit study are not known about or are completely ignored, and often
handled by further duress."

    "And many a once bright keen young student throws in his study in
despair and goes to the nearest oculist for even stronger lenses in his
glasses to help his ruined eyesight."

    "THE SUBJECT, THE VERY IDEA OF STUDY ITSELF HAS
BECOME TRAUMATIC, IT IS AN AREA OF LOSSES AND
PHYSICAL PAINS."

    To handle this I developed the following rundown:

    Assessing items for best read and pc interest and running standard
R3R on the item thus found forms the framework of the Dianetic Student
Rescue Intensive.

                ASSISTS 465

    The Dianetic Student Rescue Intensive is thus very simple:

    1. Assess "being trained," "being educated," "study," "learning,"
for best read (a fall or longer).

    2. List for attitudes connected with ______ (item found in 1 above).

    3. Run the resulting items R3R triple by standard Dianetic
procedure. Exhaust the list.

    4. Repeat Steps 2 and 3, listing (separately and in this order) for
emotions, sensations and pains connected with . . . (item found in 1
above).

    A point will come where the pc is now happy about the subject and
has no further items. At this point the intensive is concluded. (Make
sure, however, that any remaining reading items are handled.)

    (It is assumed that usual actions such as checking for additions and
using "suppress" and "invalidate" on the list to obtain further items
are done if necessary.)

    Steps:

    1. R-factor: "We are going to run the Dianetic Student Rescue
Intensive."

    1a. Clear the words of the assessment.

    2. R-factor: "I am going to start with an assessment--you don't have
to say anything--I will assess this on the meter."

    Assess: being trained
            being educated
            study
            learning

for the best read.

    Note the meter reads on an assessment sheet.

    2a. Make sure your pc has thoroughly cleared the words and commands
of R3R.

    3. List "What attitudes are connected with 
(_best_reading_item_in_2_)" and handle with Steps 4-11.

    4. Take the largest reading item or first LFBD item.

    5. If pc is interested, run it R3R to EP--triple flow.

    6. Run all reading items with pc interest R3R to EP--triple flow.
Exhaust the list.

                466 BOOK THREE

    7. Reassess any remaining unrun items to see if they now read. If
they do, run them. Check for any more items the pc has to add to the
list and mark them down with their reads.

    8. Repeat Steps 4-7.

    9. When no more items to add and no further items reading but some
unrun items on the list, null with "suppress" and "invalidate."

    10. Run any now reading items.

    11. Exhaust the list.

    12. Repeat Steps 3-11 handling the emotions, sensations and pains
connected with the (_best-reading_item_). Handle each area separately
with Steps 3-11 and handle them in this exact order.

    13. Repeat Steps 3-12 with the next best-reading item from the
assessment in Step 2.

    An auditor has it in his power to make well, happy, healthy human
beings. That power is in direct proportion to his flawlessness as an
auditor. Only the most exact and proper technology will produce the
desired result.

    If you truly want to help your fellows, that exact skill and those
results are very well worth having.

    In addition to the above assists there is regular Dianetic auditing
which handles chronic discomforts and prevents future illness as well as
improving the state of well-being of a person.

    The mechanisms of the mind revealed in Dianetics are of great use to
the field of medicine.

    They are easy and quick to apply.

    About one month's training is all that is necessary to acquaint an
otherwise educated and intelligent person with the fundamentals and
skills necessary to audit Dianetics.

    Considerably more time of course is necessary to train a skilled
Scientology auditor, but this is not the subject of this book.

    There is no conflict of interest between any healing profession and
Dianetics. Dianetic materials and papers are fully available.

                ASSISTS 467

    There is a conflict between Dianetics and political practices such
as psychiatry, since electric shock, brain operations and general
degradation of the person may prevent the patient's recovery by
Dianetics.

    As answers exist now for insanity, there is no reason to continue
medieval or fascist solutions to the problem of the psychosomatically
ill or the insane and we are doing everything in our power against
fantastic opposition to end the torture and killing of the insane
regardless of the politically "desirable" ends envisioned by some
groups.

    Dianetics, like any other true treatment, was designed to handle the
apparent basic cause of psychosomatic illness. The first research was
intended to help allied prisoners of war degraded by the Japanese and
Chinese prison camps and who after V-J Day were transferred to Oak Knoll
Naval Hospital. Later, in 1954, in a much more advanced state of
development, Dianetics was successfully employed to eradicate the
results of allied prisoners of the Korean War who had been subjected to
Russian brainwashing. The subject has been improved, made easier to
teach and apply and its results bettered continually.

    Fully updated as ~Standard~ Dianetics, it is very successful and is
in very broad use over the world.


                CHAPTER 6

                DRUGS

    I have made a real breakthrough on the action of painkillers (known
as aspirin, tranquilizers, hypnotics, soporifics).

    It has never been known in chemistry or medicine exactly how or why
these things worked. Such compositions are derived by accidental
discoveries that "such and so depresses pain."

    The effects of existing compounds are not uniform in result and
often have very bad side effects.

    As the ~reason~ they worked was unknown, very little advance has
been made in biochemistry. If the reason they worked were known and
accepted, possibly chemists could develop some actual ones which had
minimal side effects.

    We will leave the fact that this could be the medical biochemical
discovery of the century and let the Nobel prizes continue to go to the
inventors of nose drops and new ways to kill, and simply ourselves use
it. Biochemical technology is not up to the point at this time that it
can utilize it.

                470 BOOK THREE

    Pain or discomfort of a psychosomatic nature comes from mental image
pictures. These are created by the thetan or living beings and impinge
or press against the body.

    By actual clinical test, the actions of aspirin and other pain
depressants are to:

    A. INHIBIT THE ABILITY OF THE THETAN TO CREATE
MENTAL IMAGE PICTURES

    and also

    B. TO IMPEDE THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY OF
NERVE CHANNELS.

    Both of these facts have a vital effect on processing.

    If you process someone who has lately been on drugs, including
aspirin, you will not be able to run out the Dianetic engram chains
properly because they are not being fully created.

    If you process someone immediately after taking aspirin for
instance, you probably will not be able to find or assess the somatics
that need to be run out to handle the condition. For the next day after
taking the aspirin or drug the mental image pictures may not be fully
available.

    In the case of chronic drug taking, the drugs must be wholly worn
off and out of the system and the engrams of drug taking must be run out
in their entirety, triple flow. If this is not done, auditing will be
trying to handle chains that aren't being fully created by the thetan.

    In the case of auditing someone who has taken drugs--aspirin,
etc.--within the last few hours or two or three days the chains of
engrams definitely will be found not fully created and therefore not
available.

    This would all be fine except for three things:

    1. Auditing under these conditions is very difficult. The TA may be
high and will not come down. One gets "erasures" at TA 4.0 with an
"F/N." Auditing errors become easy to make. The bank is jammed.

    2. The thetan is rendered STUPID, blank, forgetful, delusive,
irresponsible. A thetan gets into a "wooden" sort of state, unfeeling,
insensitive, unable and definitely not trustworthy, a menace to his
fellows actually.

                DRUGS 471

    3. When the drugs wear off or start to wear off the ability to
create starts to return and TURNS ON SOMATICS MUCH HARDER. One of the
answers a person has for this is MORE drugs. To say nothing of heroin,
there are, you know, aspirin addicts. The compulsion stems from a desire
to get rid of the somatics and unwanted sensations again. There is also
something of dramatization of the engrams already gotten from earlier
drug taking. The being gets more and more wooden, requiring more and
more quantity and more frequent use.

    Sexually it is common for someone on drugs to be very stimulated at
first. This is the "procreate before death" impulse as drugs are a
poison. But after the original sexual "kicks" the stimulation of sexual
sensation becomes harder and harder to achieve. The effort to achieve it
becomes obsessive while it itself is less and less satisfying.

    The cycle of drug restimulation of pictures (or creating in general)
can be at first to increase creation and then eventually to inhibit it
totally.

    If one were working on this biochemically the least harmful pain
depressant would be one that inhibited the creation of mental image
pictures with minimal resulting "woodenness" or stupidity and which was
body soluble so that it passed rapidly out of the nerves and system.
There are no such biochemical preparations at this time.

    These tests and experiments tend to prove that the majority of pain
and discomfort do come from mental image pictures and that these are
immediately created.

    Erasure of a mental image picutre by Standard Dianetic processing
removes the compulsion to create it.

    Drugs chemically inhibit the creation but inhibit as well the
erasure. When the drug has worn off, the picture audited while it was in
force can return.

    The E-meter tone arm under drugs or on a drug case can go very
high--TA 4.0, TA 5.0. It can also be dropped to "dead thetan" (a false
Clear read).

    Auditing a person on drugs can obtain an "erasure" and "F/N" at TA
4.0. But the erasure is only apparent and must be "rehabbed" (verified
or redone) when the person is off drugs.

                472 BOOK THREE

    Any habitual drug taker, applying for auditing while still on drugs
should be given a six weeks' "drying out" period off drugs this whole
time and then the drug taking (by somatic or sensation of drugs or prior
assessment to drugs--preferably both) must be run out as an early
auditing action.

    A person who has taken aspirin or other drugs within the past 24
hours or the past week, should be given a week to "dry out" before
auditing of any kind is given.

    It is not fatal to audit over drugs. It is just difficult, the
results may not be lasting and need to be verified afterwards.

    Chronic drug takers who have not had drugs specifically handled may
go back to drugs after auditing as they were too drugged during auditing
to get rid of what was bothering them and which drove them to drugs.

    With the enemies of various countries using widespread drug
addiction as a defeatist mechanism, with painkillers so easily available
and so ineffective, drugs are a serious auditing problem.

    It can be handled. But when aspirin, that innocent seeming
painkiller, can produce havoc in auditing if not detected, the subject
needs care and knowledge.

    The above data will keep the auditor clear of the pitfalls of this
hazard.

    To paraphrase an old quote: we used to have iron men and wooden
ships. We now have a drug society and wooden citizens.

    I've been studying this for many years and have made the
breakthrough.

    Drug companies would be advised to do better research.

    And auditors are advised to ask any pc, "Have you been taking any
drugs or aspirin?"

    The medical aspect is an understandable wish to handle pain. Doctors
should press for better drugs to do this that do not have such
lamentable side effects.


¤Drug Data¤


    LSD-25 is a colorless, odorless, tasteless and virtually
undetectable derivative of a rye mold called ergot. The use

                DRUGS 473

of sugar cubes as a medium was discontinued several years ago. Dosage is
fantastically small, 50 to 1000 ~micro~grams per dose, so capsules and
tablets are used to reduce evaporation. Price varies from three to seven
dollars and it is only sold on the black market. Prior to 1964 the drug
was administered by psychologists and psychiatrists. However, it is now
illegal for them to do so. Despite its illegal status, LSD is very
popular among teenagers and college students. An entire subculture of
psychedelic (mind- manifesting) posters, light shows, and electronic
music emerged on the West Coast. Most of the pop music has hidden drug
references. A 1968 survey indicated that over 50% of the students
graduating from the Los Angeles City School System had tried either LSD
or marijuana.

    Marijuana is the most popular of the psychedelic drugs. One ounce
may be readily purchased for around ten dollars and will furnish thirty
to fifty cigarettes or "joints." A smoker quickly progresses from the
one ounce "lids" to puchasing a "brick" or "kilo." This is a kilogram
(2.2 lbs.) and sells for approximately $140 to $200. Marijuana may be
easily identified. It has a strong characteristic odor which is similar
to fresh hay or wet, freshly cut grass. Smoking some tea leaves rolled
up into a cigarette will give you a good stable datum for identifying
marijuana odor. Marijuana may be physically identified as a green or
greenish-brown tobacco with varying amounts of brown stems and small
round seeds.

    Hashish, like marijuana, comes from the female hemp plant, ~Cannabis
sativa~. When matured, the plant is hung upside down and resins collect
which are dried into hashish. One gram of hashish sells for about $10 to
$20, and will supply ten to thirty "hits" or periods of being "high."
Hashish is brown, tan, or black and is usually kept in tin foil. Users
of both hashish and marijuana will have bloodshot eyes while under the
influence. Someone under LSD may be identified by very dilated pupils.

    Peyote "buttons" are several inches in diameter and come from the
peyote cactus of Southwest America. The pure form of the drug is a
synthetic called mescaline sulfate.

                474 BOOK THREE

    A beefed up version of this drug was made available but was, as of
June, 1968, unnamed.

    Another drug is STP. This drug is much more powerful than even LSD.
As of June, 1968, STP was waning in use as people found its results too
unpredictable.

    One other drug worth mentioning is DMT. This drug is smoked or
injected and has immediate effects which end in about an hour. It may be
identified by an odor similar to moth balls and is either a white powder
or soaked into a medium such as pot or tobacco.

    Marijuana is basically a very mild drug which creates euphoria. Also
it has the unpleasant consequence of distorting the senses of the user
to the point that people on "trips" have been known to open the door of
a car going 80 miles per hour and step out "since they could walk
faster."

    The remaining psychedelic drugs are much more powerful and will
strongly influence a person.

    The "trips" that a drug user goes on tend to produce stuck points on
the track with much fixation of attention on that area. Bad "trips" tend
to act like super engrams collapsing the track at that point.

    Users of drugs cannot as-is, do not get TA, nor do they have
cognitions.


¤Drugs and "Insanity" Non-Compliance and Alter-Is¤


    I have done some research on drug cases and takers which has shed
some interesting light on this and also insanity.

    The basic equation is apparently:

    WHEN THREATENED WITH UNMOCKING A THETAN
MOCKS UP OBSESSIVELY.

    Actually the datum explains for instance why a pc, challenged by an
"auditor" who is breaking the Auditor's Code, gets such a solid reaction
in the reactive bank.

    Threatened by an apparent effort to destroy him instead of letting
him find the truth, the pc reacts by mocking up hard below his awareness
level. This does not, of course, make him insane. It just sticks him a
bit in the session.

                DRUGS 475

    Drugs (LSD, marijuana, alcohol, whatever) produce a threat to the
body like any other poison. The threat is to the ~body~. The thetan
reacts by mocking up.

    Of course what he mocks up is some engram, secondary or combination
of fancy and fact. He can do this in some cases, so hard that it becomes
more real (and safer) than present time.

    Thus, under threat, he goes out of present time.

    Now comes the next bit which is important as a new discovery:

    HIS TIME TRACK IS NOT THEN BEING MADE UP WHOLLY
OF PRESENT TIME EVENTS. IT IS A COMPOSITE OF PAST
TRACK, IMAGINATION AND PRESENT EVENTS.

    Thus, right there before your eyes he, apparently in the same room
as you are, doing the same things, is really only partially there and
partially in some past events.

    He ~seems~ to be there. Really he isn't "tracking" fully with
present time.

    What is going on to a rational observation is ~not~ what is going on
to him.

    Thus he does not duplicate statements made by another but tries to
fit them into his composite reality. In order to fit them in, he has to
alter them.

    We therefore have the real basis of ~alter-is~.

    He may be ~sure~ he is helping one REPAIR the floor but in actual
fact he is hindering the actual operation in progress which really
consists of CLEANING the floor. So when he "helps one" mop the floor he
introduces chaos into the activity. Since ~he~ is REPAIRING the floor a
request to "give me the mop" has to be reinterpreted as "hand me the
hammer." But the mop handle is larger than a hammer handle so the bucket
gets upset.

    As a thetan can mock up an infinity of combinations, there would be
an infinity of types of reactions to drugs. There would also be an
infinity of types of insanity.

    What is constant is that he is NOT RUNNING IN THE SAME SERIES
OF EVENTS as others.

    This can be slight, wherein the person is seen to make occasional
mistakes. It can be as serious as total insanity

                476 BOOK THREE

where the events apparent to him are ~completely~ different than those
apparent to anyone else. And it can be all grades in between.

    It isn't that he doesn't know what's going on. It's that he
perceives ~something else~ going on instead of the present time sequence
of events.

    Thus others appear to him to be stupid or unreasonable or insane. As
~they~ don't agree in their actions and orders with what he ~plainly
sees~ is in progress "they" aren't sensible. Example: A group is moving
furniture. To all but one they are simply moving furniture. This one
perceives himself to be "moving geometrical shapes into a cloud." Thus
this one "makes mistakes," "alter-ises," "non-complies." As the group
doesn't see inside him and only sees another like themselves, they can't
figure out why he "balls things up so."

    Such persons as drug takers and the insane are thus slightly or
wholly on an apparently different time track of "present time" events.

    A drug may be taken to drive a person out of an unbearable PT or out
of consciousness altogether.

    In some persons they do not afterwards return wholly to present
time.

    A thetan can also escape an unbearable PT by dropping into the past,
even without drugs.

    The penalty is running into obsessive mocking up to counter the
threat of being unmocked.

    The answer is to erase the engrams and reactive mechanisms.

    As all this out-of-PT is unknowing, it is aberrative. Things one is
doing that one knows one is doing are not aberrative.

    The drug taker and the insane alike have not recovered present time,
to a greater or lesser degree. Thus they think they are running on a
different time track than they are, which, unknowningly and out of the
past, they are, to a greater or lesser degree, mocking up.

    These are the underlying facts in odd human behavior.

    Thus we get an explanation of enturbulation as well.

                DRUGS 477

    As what is going on, according to the perception and subjective
reality of such a person, is varied in greater or lesser degree from the
objective reality of others, such a person enturbulates the actual
environment.

    What is really going on is not what is going on for them.

    Orders, then, are not complied with, other things happen and people
around such a person have their own consecutive events disrupted. This
causes enturbulation.

    The non-compliance, alter-is and upsets from a person who is out of
present time and (what is new about this) who is running on a different
series of events than those going on for the rest, causes general
enturbulation.

    This is why it takes two additional people to handle the routine
goofs of such a person. They are forcing events to run more or less
normally against the counter effort of a person with a delusory time
track.

    We have all known such a person, many more than one, so it is not
uncommon in the current civilization. The sudden non-sequitur remark,
out of context. The blank stare when given an order or a remark--behind
these lie a whole imaginary time track which we jar into and
accidentally disrupt.

    We sometimes hear of a person who is "exterior" and so can't be
audited any more.

    The symptoms of the person have not changed. So he still has
aberrations.

    The answer is to clear the word ~exteriorization~ with them. They
often are exterior into a never-never non-extant universe. Or exterior
in a past death.

    When the word is cleared with them, they often don't really say what
was going on. They experience a strange reaction and change.

    If one then runs a bit of objective havingness, they come into
present time.

    This applies only to exteriorized cases who can't be audited because
they are "exterior." And yet aren't all right casewise.

    The usual course is to just handle the case by standard technology.
They eventually come right.

                478 BOOK THREE

    Anyone forced into a dangerous environment tends to either go fully
into present time or retreat from present time.

    The only ones who suffer from it afterwards are those who don't move
on up the track as life goes on, but stay there, retreated from a
long-gone present time or stuck in a moment of the past.

    This is done, of course, because of pictures mocked up obsessively
under the threat of unmock.

    When you understand the condition you can't be fooled by it and
think such people are there with you when they are not.

    Auditing, of course, resolves this.


¤Drugs Drying Out¤


    It occasionally happens that someone is still on drugs when he or
she requires drug processing.

    This sets up a very rough problem.

    DRUGS PREVENT ANY CASE GAIN.

    If the person is still on drugs, processing will have little effect.
He will not cease to be a drug addict. The drugs trap him.

    When the world went druggie (about 1960), this problem of drying out
became one of the first order. It was not just a problem to us. All
pre-Scientology efforts failed--and had been failing for all Man's
history. But relatively small numbers had been involved. After 1960 the
problem became planet-wide.

    Our first church to handle this was Los Angeles. They made the
person cease to take drugs for six weeks, then audited the drugs out.
Most of these cases stayed stable and thereafter had case gain and were
no longer condemned to an eternity of disability.

    However, some were unable to stop taking drugs.

    What is called WITHDRAWAL SYMPTOMS set in. These are the body and
mental reactons to no longer taking drugs. They are ghastly. No torturer
ever set up anything worse.

                DRUGS 479

    The patient had this problem then:

    A. Stay on drugs and be trapped and suffering from here on out.

    B. Try to come off the drugs and be so agonizingly ill meanwhile
that he couldn't stand it.

    This was a dead-if-you-do, dead-if-you-don't sort of problem.

    Medicine did not solve it adequately. Psychotherapy was impossible.

    Two approaches now exist to this withdrawal problem.

    1. Light objective (look outward, take attention off body) processes
ease the gradual withdrawal and make it possible.

    2. Nutritionist experiments indicate that vitamins assist the
withdrawal.

    According to the late, world-renowned nutritionist Adele Davis,
vitamin therapy has had success in handling withdrawal symptoms.

    Instead of just telling the person to break off drugs with all that
suffering and danger of failure, the patient is given heavy doses of
vitamins. The data is repeated here for information.

    Drug Bomb One Dose. 1,000 milligrams of niacinamide (~not~ nicotinic
acid as it is severely toxic in such amounts). This for any mental
disturbance.

    500 milligrams of magnesium carbonate (to make the Vitamin C
effective).

    2,000 milligrams of Vitamin C.

    25 milligrams of B6.

    200 milligrams of B Complex.

    100 milligrams of pantothenic acid.

    The bomb is given four times a day, roughly every six hours.

    It is given in a mild preparation that furnishes intestinal flora
such as yogurt.

    ~Great caution~ must be used to give the dose in such a way that the
vitamins will not corrode the stomach. If this is neglected the patient
can be given a false duodenal (upper intestine) ulcer and will be unable
to continue the treatment.

                480 BOOK THREE

"Druggies" are usually in terrible physical condition anyway. Thus all
the above would have to be in "enteric coated" capsules, meaning an
intestinal shielding must be on the pills so they gradually dissolve and
don't hit the sensitive upper stomach hard enough to corrode it.

    Thus milk with powdered amino acids in it would have to be given to
wash the pills down.

    In testing these recommendations stomach corrosion from the bomb was
the main barrier noted.

    If the bomb is given without any cushion the patient can (a) feel
too full after eating (b) have a stomach ache (c) have a burning
sensation (d) the exterior of the stomach can get sore. These are all
stomach ulcer symptoms.

    If such symptoms turn on, end off the vitamins. Aluminum hydroxide
tablets chewed up and swallowed in milk each time the symptoms start
will ease the stomach. Amino acids, intestinal flora and milk must then
be given until the stomach gets better.

    Shots, with a needle, especially of Vitamin C can be too painful.
Not the needle, that's nothing; but the vitamin itself.

    Such medication is in a crude state of research, mainly because of
the violent hostility earlier exerted against vitamin people by the
American Medical Association and other reactionaries to anything
beneficial or new.

    It is hoped that the stomach corrosion factor can be lessened by new
preparations which do the same thing but less violently.

    I am not particularly advocating the use of the drug bomb but as a
pioneer in this area of research I feel that any data of value on the
subject of drug withdrawal should be widely published.

    The difficulties and agonies of withdrawal are the primary failure
point in trying to salvage a being from the insanity of drugs.

    People who have been on drugs do not make case gain until the drugs
are handled in processing.

    Processing such as Dianetics is not effective when done on a person
who is taking drugs.

                DRUGS 481

    Withdrawal from drugs sometimes sets up a violent physical reaction
too painful or depressing to be continued and the person goes back on
drugs.

    Coming off a heavy addiction to heroin, opium, cocaine, methadrine,
and other such heavy drugs has with it a period of withdrawal which
contains body contortions and pain. A person, during withdrawal from
heavy drugs, should have vitamins, and be in a safe space, with a
trained person giving assists throughout the withdrawal (usually a few
days).

    Once a person is off a heavy addiction he will often need a lot more
personal attention than most people and often tends to have ethics
trouble.

    Anyone on drugs or who has taken drugs is doomed as a being--just
like that. He or she will cave right on in and finish up in the ash can
from here on out.

    ~Only~ processing by Dianetics and Scientology can handle the
effects of drugs fully. No other technology, medical or biochemical has
ever helped--we have thousands of cases to prove this completely.

    The primary barrier to processing is getting the person off drugs
and keeping him off until he can be fully audited. Then he will be very
okay.

    Two means to do this are known: A. Light objective processes while
"drying out" and B. Nutritional therapy.

    A and B can be combined.

    Neither A nor B will fully handle drugs. The person on vitamins if
not processed will relapse.

    Vitamins are not drugs. They are nutrition. A person can be
processed while on them.

    By close application of these principles the person can be salvaged.

    And having been salvaged can go on up to greater freedom and
ability.

    He won't make it otherwise by any other known technology.

    It is possible to come off drugs without convulsions.

    Drugs essentially are poisons. The degree to which they are taken
determines the effect. A small amount gives a

                482 BOOK THREE

stimulant. A greater amount acts as a sedative. A larger amount acts as
a poison and can kill one.

    This is true of any drug. Each has a different amount. Caffeine is a
drug. So coffee is an example. 100 cups of coffee would probably kill a
person. Ten cups would probably put him to sleep. Two or three cups
stimulate. This is a very common drug. It is not very harmful as it
takes so much of it to have an effect so it is known as a stimulant.

    Arsenic is known as a poison. Yet a tiny amount of arsenic is a
stimulant, a good sized dose puts one to sleep and a few grains kills
one.

    But there are some drugs which have another factor. They directly
affect the reactive bank. Marijuana (pot), peyote, morphine, heroin,
etc., turn on the pictures one is stuck in. And they turn them on too
hard to audit out.

    LSD-25, the psychiatric drug designed to make schizophrenics out of
normal people, is evidently widely distributed by psychiatrists. It
looks like cube sugar and is easily made.

    Drugs are considered valuable by addicts to the degree that they
produce some "desirable effect."

    But they are dangerous to those around because a person on drugs:

    a. has blank periods

    b. has unrealities and delusions that remove him from present time

    c. is ~very~ hard to audit.

    Thus a drug taker can be holding a boat alongside, go into one of
his blanks, think he is on Venus and let go.

    A drug taker left on watch may go blank and miss a menacing
situation and not handle it because he is "somewhere else."

    Giving an order to a drug taker can be grim as he may simply stand
and stare at one. He ARC breaks people with it.

    It takes about six weeks apparently for LSD to wear off. After that
a person can be audited. But it ruins his case to a marked degree as it
builds up ridges which don't as-is well.

                DRUGS 483

    A drug or alcohol ~burns up~ the Vitamin B1 in the system rapidly.
This increased speed of burning up B1 adds to his "happy state." But now
his system is out of B1 so he goes depressed.

    To avoid convulsions take lots of B1 daily when coming off drugs.

    And wait for six weeks before one is audited.

    And then lay off. It's a pretty poor trick on those who are
dependent on one and get let down.


¤Drug Handling¤


    A person who has been on drugs is one of the "seven types of
resistive cases." (These types are found on the Scientology Green Form
No. 40.)

    In other words, someone who has been on drugs does not make good
case gain until the drugs are handled. The same somatics will come back
again. The case rollercoasters--goes up and down.

    Drugs, since 1962, have been in very widespread use. Before then
they were rare. A world-wide spread of drugs has occurred. A large
percentage of people became and are drug takers.

    The psychiatrists' gift to Man, LSD, is the worst. Any medical drugs
are included. Drugs are drugs. There are thousands of trade names and
slang terms for these drugs.

    ALCOHOL is included as a drug and receives the same treatment in
auditing.

    They are supposed to do wonderful things but all they really do is
ruin the person.

    Even someone off drugs for years still has "blank periods." The
abilities to concentrate or to balance are injured.

    The moral part of it has nothing to do with auditing. The facts are
that:

    a. People who have been on drugs can be a liability until the
condition is handled in auditing.

    b. A former drug user is a resistive case that does not make stable
gains until the condition is handled.

                484 BOOK THREE

    c. Auditing is the only successful means ever developed for handling
drug damage.

    On persons who are currently on drugs, it is necessary to take them
through a special TR Course while they are still on them. They gradually
come off of them voluntarily in most cases without painful "withdrawal
symptoms" (which is the term for the agony and convulsions caused,
particularly in the case of heroin takers, by just stopping the drug.
Alcoholics are, of course, included).

    People who have been on drugs are sometimes afraid of running
engrams.

    In fact, it is almost a way to detect a "druggie."

    The drugs, particularly LSD and even sometimes antibiotics or other
medicines to which the person has an allergy can turn on whole track
pictures violently.

    These tend to overwhelm the person and make him feel crazy. Some of
these people are afraid to confront the bank again.

    The TRs and other steps of the special TR Course improve their
confront.

    If a person "doesn't like Dianetics" and doesn't want to be run on
engrams, it is necessary to put them on the special course. If Dianetics
~has~ been run but poorly, it should of course be repaired fully with an
L3RD (list used to correct Dianetic errors). But if the person still
flinches, the special course successfully completed will handle. It
contains recall steps giving the pc a chance to confront the bank more
easily and get used to it.

    A full auditing rundown on drugs, all done on the same pc, would be:

    1. Special TR Course for ex-drug users or alcoholics. (Done at a
Scientology church or mission.)

    2. Pc Assessment sheet.*

    3. Class VIII* Drug Rundown triple.

    4. By a Dianetic auditor: pains, emotions, sensations, attitudes
connected with drugs (or alcohol), R3R triple.

    5. Prior Assessment to drugs, R3R triple, Dianetic auditor.

    This can be followed by routine triple Dianetics to EP for the
grade.

                DRUGS 485

    Drugs are done ~first~. They are NOT done after the health form and
regular Dianetics.

    Why? Because drugs make a resistive case! Regular Dianetics will get
loses.

    Any current Dianetic case failures are from flubby Dianetic auditing
or the person has been on drugs or alcohol which were not handled by
Dianetics.

    It hasn't harmed anyone to omit drugs. But it made it hard or
impossible to get stable case gain.

    THUS ANY DIANETIC PC WHO HAS HAD DRUG HANDLING
OMITTED MUST BE RUN ON DRUGS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
BEFORE MORE AUDITING IS GIVEN.

    I repeat, drugs or alcohol in most instances make a resistive case
so the point must be handled before the case will attain and hold case
gain.

    ANY PC WHO IS NOT MAKING IT IN AUDITING SHOULD
BE CHECKED FOR A DRUG OR ALCOHOL HISTORY.

    In investigating a series of cases who were not making it, I found
in each one that the person had been on drugs or alcohol and that drugs
or the alcohol had not been run out.

    I found several Dianetic pcs were only run on the prior assessment
to drugs. This is not good enough.

    Where Dianetic auditing only is available and the rest of the
rundown given above is not, drugs can still be handled by a Dianetic
auditor in this way with this Dianetic program.

    1. Pc Assessment sheet.

    2. Full C/S 1, also doing the TRs well with the pc.

    3. Write down the drugs from the pc assessment sheet. Take the one
that reads best on the meter.

    4. List, what pains, emotions, sensations or attitudes are connected
with taking (the drug).

    5. Take the best reading Dianetic item from the list in (4). Run R3R
triple.

    6. Complete items on the (4) above with R3R triple.

    7. Take another drug from (3) above that reads.

    8. Repeat (4).

    9. Repeat (5).

                486 BOOK THREE

    10. Use up the whole list in (4) above in this way until the entire
list of drugs F/Ns when called.

    11. Do prior assessment to drugs (or alcohol). R3R triple.

    12. Triple R3R on any missing flows of earlier Dianetic items run.

    13. Do Health Form.

    14. Proceed with routine triple Dianetics.

    This program is the one that would be done at Step 4 in the full
drug program which includes the TR Course and Class VIII Rundown (latter
is included in this chapter).

    This unblocks the case gain of a great many pcs on whom a drug or
alcohol history was never noticed or handled.


¤The Special Drug Rundown¤


    The ~Special~ Drug Rundown was developed to handle persons
~currently on drugs~. Such persons have to be weaned off drugs in order
to be audited. This is done by having the person do TRs further assisted
by vitamins.

    Those with heavy drug histories or recently or currently on drugs do
not usually run well on engrams until objective processes have been run
(CCHs, 8-C, etc.). Thus a person ~currently~ on drugs would require a
full TR course as the first step and then objective processing before
the standard Drug RD could be started.

    This gives three levels of drug handling:

    1. Persons who have had drugs of some sort but are not currently on
drugs, who do respond well to auditing, already had objective processing
and can run engrams. Such persons can be run on the standard Drug
Rundown.

    2. Persons who have had heavy drug history, not currently on drugs
but do not run well on engrams (common with such cases). Always run
objective processes prior to doing the Drug Rundown.

    3. Persons currently on drugs. These persons do a full ~Special~
Drug Rundown, which starts with the Hubbard Qualified Scientologist
Course (HQS) and is followed by full drug handling. This can be done at
your nearest church or mission.

                DRUGS 487

    If a person wants auditing and is not ~currently~ on drugs then give
him ~auditing~. Just make sure that drug handling is included in the
person's program which will also include objective processes if the
person has any trouble running engrams.

    One does not have to have been on drugs in order to do the HQS
Course. It is a regular public course covering a great range of very
valuable data and gives tremendous case gain to anyone whether a
"druggie" or not.

    On completion of the HQS Course the person can be signed up for
either training or processing. It is preferable to have ~training~.

    Co-audit is an abbreviation for co-operative auditing. It means a
team of two people who are using Scientology processes to help each
other reach a better life. The two people alternate auditing each other.
First one person is the auditor and the other the pc. The auditor audits
the pc on one process until a predetermined time length, or the end
phenomena (EP, result), which is cognition (realization) and VGIs (very
good indicators--pc looking very bright and happy) are achieved for the
pc. The two people then switch and the first person becomes the pc and
the second becomes the auditor, using the same process.

    A person with an earlier drug history can co-audit on drugs in full.
Having started the person on a training/co-audit basis on the HQS it is
desirable to keep the person on that route and so produce ~auditors~.

    The main point is being made is that the HQS is ~not a prerequisite~
to any training or auditing except only where a person is ~currently~ on
drugs.

    The steps of the Special Drug Rundown are as follows:

    R-factor--The person is routed to the HQS Course Supervisor who will
give him an R-factor on the program and the following data:

    1. He must come off drugs as soon as possible (for the person still
taking drugs).

    2. He should get plenty of rest, eight hours or as much as it takes
to be well rested; good food, at least three full meals a day with lots
of protein, and vitamins. The vitamins, dosage of each, and the method
of taking them as given

                488 BOOK THREE

previously for drugs, drying out. The person is told to acquire the
vitamins and is given ~very exact~ instructions on when and how to take
them.

    The person is also instructed to report daily to the supervisor of
the course whether he has taken his vitamins and any effects from them;
whether he has eaten and slept well; and whether he has taken any drugs,
if so what and how much.

    3. The person should then be requested to have a full medical exam
and a report of the results from the doctor given to the supervisor.

    At the end of the interview the person commences the HQS Course.

    On completion of the TRs, (0-4 and 6-9), with both the supervisor
and student satisfied that the student has successfully completed the
TRs, the student goes on to the co-audit.

    The co-audit contains objective and recall processes. The co-audit
gives the person both case gain, and wins on producing case gain in
others. It increases the person's cause level. The co-audit section
includes data on the processes to be co-audited, and a very exact drill
for each process so that the student can gain certainty on doing the
process before running it on another student auditor.

    Then run control, communication, havingness. The processes for
running each CCH are given below.

    CCH-1 process purpose: To demonstrate to pc that control of pc's
body is possible, despite revolt of circuits, and inviting pc to
directly control it. Absolute control by auditor then passes over
towards absolute control of his own body by pc.

    CCH-1: "Give me that hand." "Thank you."

    CCH-2 process purpose: To demonstrate to pc that his body can be
controlled and thus inviting him to control it. To orient him in his
present time environment. To increase his ability to duplicate and thus
increase his havingness.

    CCH-2: "You look at that wall." "Thank you."

    "You walk over to that wall." "Thank you."

    "You touch that wall." "Thank you."

    "Turn around." "Thank you."

                DRUGS 489

    CCH-3 process purpose: To develop reality on the auditor using the
reality scale (solid communication line). To get pc into communication
by control and duplication. To find auditor.

    Auditor should be gentle and accurate in his motions, all motions
being tone 40 (intention without reservation), giving pc wins. To be
free in two-way communication.

    If pc dopes off in this process auditor may take pc's wrist and help
him execute the command one hand at a time. If pc does not answer during
anaten to the second command, auditor may wait for normal comm lag of
that pc, acknowledge and continue process.

    CCH-3: "Put your hands against mine, follow them and contribute to
their motion."

    "Did you contribute to their motion?" "Thank you."

    After first flattening (three equal comm lags) increase distance
between hands with command, "Put your hands facing mine about half an
inch away, follow them and contribute to their motion." Increase
distance.

    CCH-4 process purpose: To bring up pc's communication with control
and duplication (control and duplication equal communication).

    CCH-4: No set verbal commands. Auditor makes a motion with a book.
Gives the book to the pc. The pc duplicates the auditor's motion with
the book in mirror image.

    Running the process:

    These are run together as a four-part process with each part to flat
point (three equal comm lags with the pc doing the process). The student
may go through the series of the four parts more than once.

    CCHs 1 to 4 are repeated (1, 2, 3, 4, 1, etc.) through and through
until

    a. all are flat on one run through,

    b.~or~ until pc has good cognition with VGIs

    c. ~or~ pc exterior.

    When the auditor sees one of these, he ends the process, and sends
pc to the pc examiner. When the process has reached its EP and F/Ned at
the examiner, C/S for the next process.

                490 BOOK THREE

    Run to EP. It is possible to do the process in two or three sessions
as long as the auditor ends on a good flat point.

    Process CCHs 5, 6, and 7.

    Each of these CCHs is a separate process and is taken to EP
(cognition, VGIs, and F/N, when put on a meter). Each is done in a
separate co-audit session, and when the EP is attained the auditor
checks for F/N etc. as above. When the process has reached its EP and
F/Ned at Examiner, C/S for the next process.

    Number: CCH-5.

    Name: Location by Contact.

    Commands: "Touch that (indicated object)." "Thank you."

    Position: Auditor and preclear may be seated where the preclear is
very unable, in which case they are seated at a table which has a number
of objects scattered on its surface. Or auditor and preclear may be
ambulant, with the auditor in manual contact with the preclear as is
necessary to face him toward and guide him to the indicated object.

    Purpose: The purpose of the process is to give the preclear
orientation and havingness and to improve his perception.

    Training Stress: Training stress is upon gentleness, ARC and the
raising of the preclear's certainty that he has touched the indicated
object. It should be noticed that this can be run on blind people.

    Number: CCH-6.

    Name: Body-Room Contact.

    Commands: "Touch your (body part)." "Thank you."

    "Touch that (indicated room object)." "Thank you."

    Position: Auditor and preclear move about together as needed, the
auditor enforcing the commands by manual contact using the preclear's
hands to touch objects and touch body parts.

    Purpose: To establish the orientation and increase the havingness of
the preclear and to give him in particular a reality on his own body.

    Training Stress: Training stress is upon using only those body parts
which are not embarrassing to the preclear

                DRUGS 491

as it will be found that preclear ordinarily has very little reality on
various parts of his body. Impossible commands should not be given to
the preclear in any case.

    Number: CCH-7.

    Name: Contact by Duplication.

    Commands: "Touch that table." "Thank you."

    "Touch your (body part)." "Thank you."

    "Touch that table." "Thank you."

    "Touch your (same body part)." "Thank you."

    "Touch that table." "Thank you."

    "Touch your (same body part)." "Thank you." etc., in that order.

    Position: Auditor may be seated. Preclear should be walking. Usually
auditor standing by to manually enforce the commands, if necessary but
only using enough effort to get the pc to carry out the command.

    Purpose: Process is used to heighten perception, orient the preclear
and raise the preclear's havingness. Control of attention as in all
these "contact" processes naturally takes the attention units out of the
bank which itself has been controlling the preclear's attention.

    Training Stress: Training stress is on precision of command and
motion, with each command in its unit of time, all commands perfectly
duplicated. Preclear to continue to run process even though he dopes
off. Good ARC with the preclear, not picking one body part which is
aberrated at first but flattening some non-aberrated body part before
aberrated body part is tackled.

    Process Op Pro by Dup (Opening Procedure by Duplication).

    Commands of Process:

    (Two objects, a book and a bottle, are used alternately.)

    0. Familiarize pc with the two objects (book and bottle).

    Have the pc look them over and handle them to his satisfaction. Then
have him place them at some walking distance apart in the room, on a
couple of tables or similar locations.

    A. "Look at that book."

    B. "Walk over to it."

    C. "Pick it up."

                492 BOOK THREE

    D. "What is its color."

    E. "What is its temperature."

    F. "What is its weight."

    G. "Put it down in exactly the same place."

    H. "Look at that bottle."

    I. (Repeat B-G on the bottle.)

    (Acknowledge after the completion of each command.)

    Do not vary the commands in any way. Use tone 40 "Thank you"
acknowledgment. The basic commands should never be departed from and
never, never "trick" the preclear by using the book again when you know
he was just about to start toward the bottle. The purpose of the process
is duplication. Good control should be used.

    Accept the pc's answers whether they are logical, silly,
imaginative, dull or unlawful. In starting the process you can discuss
with him what you are about to do and make sure you have got the
rudiments established.

    This process is run, continually repeating the commands A to I, to
the EP which is A. Flattened Comm lags and no more change on the
process, or B. A real big win with F/N, Cog, VGIs and ability regained,
or C. Exterior with an F/N, Cog, VGIs. When process has reached its EP
and F/Ned at Examiner, C/S for the next process.

    Recall Lists (From the book ~Self Analysis~,* by L. Ron Hubbard.)

    Commands of Process:

    A. Can you recall a time when ______ ?

    (Have him recall a particular sense in that incident.)

    B. Can you recall another time when _____ ?

    (Have him recall the same sense as used for A, but in the B
incident.)

    C. Recall the earliest time you can when ________ ?

    (Have him recall the same sense as used for A, but in the C
incident.)

    (Refer to ~Self Analysis~.)

    The endings used in this are found in ~Self Analysis~, Lists One
through Twelve. The "senses" are also given in the book and include
sight, smell, touch, etc.

    The auditors co-audit on this process doing each list in a separate
co-audit session, to EP (cognition, VGIs and F/N

                DRUGS 493

when put on a meter). When the process has reached its EP and it has
been acknowledged, C/S for the next list.

    The lists are continued until the pc has a big win.

    The ~correct~ commands for ARC straightwire at the end of ~Self
Analysis~ lists, as researched and as successful in cracking even
neurotic cases, with one command added to modernize it, were and are:

    Recall a time that was really real to you.

    Recall a time that you were in good communication with someone.

    Recall a time you really felt affinity for someone.

    Recall a time you knew you understood something.

    Run ~only~ on a meter.

    Run ~only~ to floating needle and ~not~ beyond. (Don't abruptly cut
pc's communication.)

    A true fact is that ARC always must precede an ARC ~break~.

    Also ARC = Understanding and Time.

    A = Space and the willingness to occupy the same space of.

    R = Mass or agreement.

    C = Energy or recognition.

    (End of co-audit process commands.)

    There are drills for each process so that the student understands
and feels confident about the process before doing it on another
student. They are done with a doll to make it as much like a real
session as possible.

    Name: Drill--CCHs 1 to 4 (CCH: Control, Communication, Havingness).

    Commands: (As per Special Drug Rundown)

    Purpose: To train the student to be able to coordinate and apply the
commands and procedure of CCHs 1 to 4 with the doingness of auditing so
that he can do it smoothly in co-auditing.

    Position: Student and a doll (representing the pc) are seated in
armless chairs, facing each other. Student's knees are on the outside of
the doll's knees.

    Training Stress: Student (auditor) starts the session and runs a
standard session including those steps given below.

                494 BOOK THREE

    The drill is complete when the student can do it smoothly and
comfortably without flubs or out TRs. (TRs 0 to 4 and 6 to 9).

    Steps:

    1. Select and set up an auditing space, and prepare your auditing
report forms (on a clip board). The space should be large enough and
suitable for the pc to be able to walk from wall to wall. There should
be two chairs facing each other and a small plain book (for CCH-4).

    2. Bring in the pc, sit the pc in his or her chair and then sit down
across from the pc with the pc's knees between the auditor's. There is
of course no E-meter.

    3. Ask the pc if it is all right to audit in the room and if not,
make things right by adjusting the room or location of auditing.

    4. Tell the pc the purpose of such sessions (Reality factor) "I want
to improve your ability." It's the auditor's goal at this level, not the
pc's. Also tell the pc exactly how long the session will be. Note the
time you started on the worksheets.

    5. Tell the pc "Start of session," and start your report form.

    6. Tell the pc "We are now going to do CCHs." Then note the time
session started and place your clip board on the floor. (Report forms
are written up immediately following the session for objective
processes, not kept during the process.)

    7. Don't go into a discussion of the process, just say "We will now
run CCH-1. Start of process."

    Raise your right hand to just above waist height halfway between
your body and pc. Hand held open.

    8. Give tone 40 command, "Give me that hand." Indicate pc's right
hand by slight nod.

    9. When pc has put his right hand in the auditor's give an
acknowledgment, "Thank you."

    10. Take the pc's right wrist by your left hand and return the pc's
hand to the pc's side.

    11. Repeat Steps 8 through to Step 10. Continue until the pc has
done so to three equal consecutive comm lags.

                DRUGS 495

    12. Take up any physical manifestations as pc originations by
saying, "What's happening?" This is done after the pc has carried out
the command and been acknowledged but before letting go of the pc's
hand.

    13. If pc doesn't give you his hand after the command and waiting a
normal response period, take the pc's right hand in your left hand and
place the pc's hand in your right. Then acknowledge the pc. Ask "What's
happening?" Accept whatever the pc says and continue.

    14. After three consecutive commands when the pc does carry out the
command and of equal comm lag without any new physical change, CCH 1 is
considered flat.

    15. Tell pc "We will now run CCH-2."

    16. Stand up, move chairs to side of auditing room leaving an
unobstructed walk between two opposite walls of the room. Stand to the
right of the pc, with the pc facing the opposite wall.

    17. Give the command (tone 40) "You look at that wall." Indicate the
wall by pointing. "Thank you."

    18. "You walk over to that wall." Walk with pc to opposite wall.
(Keeping to pc's right.) "Thank you."

    19. "You touch that wall." "Thank you."

    20. "Turn around." If pc turns around move in two steps to a
position just in front of the pc (facing pc). "Thank you." Then move to
pc's right.

    21. Repeat 7 to 21 until the process is flat (three consecutive
sequences of commands with pc doing the process and no new physical
manifestations or change of comm lag.)

    22. Take up any physical change as a pc origination as it occurs.

    23. Tell pc we will now run CCH-3.

    24. Return to the two chairs set up as in CCH-1.

    25. Raise both hands, palms open facing pc, hands about shoulder
height and halfway between auditor and pc.

    26. Give command (not tone 40) "Put your hands against mine, follow
them and contribute to their motion."

    27. When pc has hands against auditor's, move first the right hand,
then the left hand in a simple motion.

                496 BOOK THREE

    Straight line motions are simpler than curved motions, make the
motions fairly slow, very positive and smooth. (Tone 40 intention in the
motions.)

    28. After the motion is done, first with the right, then the left
and finally with both hands, which are then returned to starting
position (pc's hands still raised against auditor's), ask "Did you
contribute to their motion?"

    Usually pc says "Yes." If pc not happy that he did you can repeat
the same motion.

    29. After cycle is complete, acknowledge, "Thank you."

    30. Return hands to lap.

    31. Repeat 26 to 30, each time varying the motion, a little; you can
increase the complexity slightly but don't get too complicated.

    32. After three consecutive cycles with pc doing the process and no
physical change or change of comm lag, tell pc "We will now run CCH-4."

    33. Remain seated in chairs as in CCH-3. Take up a book (a light
hard-covered book with a plain cover is best). Explain to the pc that
you are going to make a motion with the book, when you have done so, you
want him to duplicate the motion.

    34. When the pc understands, then hold the book steady in a
comfortable position between auditor and pc. Make a simple motion of the
book (similar to CCH-3 type motions). Complete the action at the
starting point, pause, then hand the book to the pc. (Don't tell him to
take it, just move it slightly toward him and look at the pc as though
offering him the book.)

    35. After the pc has repeated the action, ask, "Did you duplicate
that motion?" or "How did you get on with that one?" (Not a rote
question--friendly, not tone 40.)

    36. If the pc is happy with it, then do a new motion.

    If pc ~says~ he wasn't happy that he duplicated it then do it again
and then keep the motions very simple to improve pc confidence.

    If pc says he was happy with it but the auditor sees it was
obviously misduplicated, just acknowledge him, start a new cycle doing
just the first part of the motion then building it up until the pc
duplicates the full motion.

                DRUGS 497

    Don't invalidate the pc by continuing to repeat motions he is happy
with. Never say or indicate by facial expression that he didn't really
duplicate the motion.

    37. Repeat 34 to 36 to three consecutive no change sequences.

    38. Repeat CCHs 1, 2, 3, 4 through and through until

    A. all are flat on one run through.

    B. ~or~ until pc has good cognition with VGIs (very good
indicators).

    C. ~or~ pc exterior.

    39. When any of these occur, end off with "That's it" and have the
pc sit down (if not sitting). Write briefly what happened on the EP.
Then take the pc to the examiner to check for F/N, or continue the
process (if a full EP has not been reached). When you go to the examiner
bring back the report with you and put it in the pc's folder.

    40. If the set time comes up before the end phenomena (EP) of the
process, do the following:

    A. Towards the end of the auditing period, warn: "The session time
is about over. We'll have to be ending shortly."

    B. When the pc has carried out an extra command or two, say, "We're
closing the session now. Time is up." (Have him sit down if he is not
sitting.) "Have you made any gains in this session?"

    C. Quickly note down on your report form the pc's answer.

    D. End the session with "End of Session." Take the pc to the
examiner.

    41. After the session write up your auditing report forms for the
session, put them into the pc's folder and hand them in to the Case
Supervisor. (Have worksheets and auditor report form.)

    Note: If you get into an impasse in session and can't make any
progress, or if the pc becomes upset or other confusions arise, end off
for further C/S instructions.

    Special Note: If the set time length comes up before you get through
all four CCHs, end off at that time (as given in 40). The CCHs will be
continued the next time it is your chance to be the auditor.

                498 BOOK THREE

    Name: Drill--Recall Lists (Reference: the book ~Self Analysis~, by
L. Ron Hubbard).

    Commands:

    1. "Can you recall a time when (item from ~Self Analysis~ list)?"

    "What (sense) did you get in the recall?"

    2. "Can you recall another time when (item from ~Self Analysis~
list)?"

    "What (sense) did you get in the recall?"

    3. "Recall the earliest time you can when (item from ~Self Analysis~
list)?"

    "What (sense) did you get in the recall?"

    Senses to be used: sight, smell, touch, color, tone, external
motion, emotion, loudness, body position, sound, weight, and personal
motion.

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to be able to coordinate and
apply the commands and procedure of (~Self Analysis~) recall lists so
that he can do them smoothly in co-auditing.

    Position: Student (auditor) and a doll (representing the pc) are
seated in chairs a comfortable distance apart, facing each other. The
student has a clip board with worksheets and report form on it.

    Training Stress: Student (auditor) starts the session and runs a
standard session which includes the steps given below. The student also
keeps records on the worksheets and report forms as he goes along.

    The drill is considered passed when the student can do it smoothly
and comfortably without flubs or out TRs.

    Steps:

    1. Prepare your report forms and set up the auditing space and two
chairs facing each other. Also have a copy of ~Self Analysis~ there and
open to the list you will be working on.

    2. Get the pc, sit the pc in his or her chair, and then sit down
across from the pc, knees a few inches from the pc's.

    3. Ask the pc if it is all right to audit in the room and if not,
make things right by adjusting the room or location of auditing.

                DRUGS 499

    4. Tell the pc the purpose of such sessions (Reality factor)--"I
want to improve your ability." It's the auditor's goal at this level,
not the pc's. Also tell the pc exactly how long the session will be. (An
hour would be a good length. The process win point may occur before that
and if it does end off the session.)

    5. Tell the pc "Start of session" and start your worksheet. (These
will be kept throughout the entire session, as the auditor goes along.)

    6. Clear the three basic commands (without the endings), one at a
time. Tell the pc the command and find out what that means to the pc.
Use a dictionary and have the pc make up sentences to clear any words
until the pc understands all the commands. (Note quickly on your
worksheets what the commands mean to the pc and any words you have him
look up.)

    7. Give the pc an R-factor that you are going to be using different
endings on the questions as you go along.

    8. Give the pc an R-factor that after each question you will be
asking him to recall a particular sense in that incident.

    9. Give the "senses" one at a time to the pc and find out what each
means to him. Use the dictionary and have pc make up sentences to clear
any words until the pc understands all of the senses.

    Note: During the session keep your worksheets as you go along. The
commands you give can be indicated by numbers, and also note briefly
what the pc says and any changes that occur.

    10. Tell the pc, "Start of process." (Start with "List One" of ~Self
Analysis~, by L. Ron Hubbard.)

    11. Tell the pc that you are now going to give the first command to
him and then you want him to tell you what it means to him. Read the
first command to him, "Can you recall a time when ~you were happy~," and
ask him what that means to him. Use a dictionary if necessary.

    12. Tell the pc, "I want you to concentrate on getting the ~sight~
in the recall." Notice that he understood that and then acknowledge him.

                500 BOOK THREE

    13. Give the pc the command, "Can you recall a time when ~you were
happy?~"

    18. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge his answer.

    15. Ask the pc, "What ~sight~ did you get in the recall?"

    16. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge his answer.

    17. Give the pc the next command, "Can you recall another time when
~you were happy?~"

    18. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge his answer.

    19. Ask the pc, "What ~sight~ did you get in the recall?"

    20. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge his answer.

    21. Give the pc the next command, "Recall the earliest time you can
when ~you were happy~. "

    22. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge his answer.

    23. Ask the pc, "What ~sight~ did you get in the recall?"

    24. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge his answer.

    25. Tell the pc, "I'm now going to give you the next command and I
would like to know what it means to you." "The command is, 'Can you
recall a time when ~you had just finished constructing something?~' What
does that mean to you?"

    26. Allow the pc to answer, acknowledge, and use the dictionary as
needed.

    27. Tell the pc, "I want you to concentrate on getting the ~smell~
in the recall."

    28. Give the pc the command, "Can you recall a time when ~you had
just finished constructing something?~"

    29. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge him.

    30. Ask the pc, "What ~smell~ did you get in the recall?"

    31. Allow the pc to answer and then acknowledge him.

    32. Continue down the list in the same pattern used in 11 through
27. Each time you go on to the next item use the next "sense" (given
either on a disk or on the bottom of the page of the recall list).

                DRUGS 501

    Note: For each item be sure to clear it first as done in 25, and
give the R-factor of the "sense" to be used with the item as given in
27.

    33. If the pc says something that you don't grasp, get it clarified
before continuing.

    34. If the pc says he can't recall anything on an item, acknowledge
him and go on to the next item.

    35. Continue down the list until the pc has the EP (cognition and
VGIs). End off with "That's it" and write briefly what happened at the
EP. Send the pc to the examiner to check for the F/N or continue the
process (if the EP has not quite been reached). When you go to the
examiner, bring the report back with you and put it with your auditing
reports.

    36. If the set time length comes up before the EP (end phenomena) of
the process, do the following:

    a. Toward the end of the auditing period, warn: "The session time is
about over. We'll have to be ending shortly."

    b. When the pc has carried out a few more commands say, "We're
closing the session now. Time is up." (End on a completed cycle after
the third command and sense on an item has been answered.) "Have you
made any gains in this session?"

    c. Quickly note down on your report form the pc's answer.

    d. End the session with "End of Session." Take the pc to the
examiner who will put the pc on a meter.

    37. Tidy up and complete your report forms, put them in the pc's
folder. (Worksheets and auditor report form are used.)

    Note: You may not have to go through the entire list before the pc
has an EP (cognition and VGIs). In other cases, if the pc has not had
his EP on the process when you come to the end of a list, go back to the
beginning of the same list and go through it again.

    The other lists (Two through Twelve of ~Self Analysis~) are done in
the same pattern. Take note that in some lists, such as List Three,
there are many sublists. Each of these should be run in the same way to
cognition and VGIs.

                502 BOOK THREE

    If the pc has a big win on the lists in general or on the subject of
recall, it is not necessary to run any remaining lists. That may be
considered a completion.


¤Auditing Rundown¤


    This step includes a full C/S 1 and Pc assessment sheet, drug rehabs
and drug chains handled (Class VIII Drug Rundown), somatic chains
connected to each drug taken handled, and prior assessment.

    First: A full C/S 1 and Pc assessment sheet are done. It is done in
an auditing room and on a meter. The actions are done as per materials
on auditing C/S 1 for Dianetics and preclear assessment sheet.

    a. Give the pc an R-factor that you are going to do a C/S 1.

    b. Do the C/S 1 including clearing the Dianetic R3R commands.

    c. Any F/Ns are indicated.

    d. Do a thorough Pc assessment sheet, noting all reads. Any F/Ns are
indicated.


                ¤PRECLEAR ASSESSMENT SHEET¤


    ~Who does the assessment?:~ The auditor assigned to audit the
preclear does the assessment.

    ~When is the assessment done?:~ This assessment is done at the
beginning of each intensive the preclear has. If he is having 75 hours
now, this assessment sheet is done at the beginning of the 75 hours. If
the preclear comes back for a further 25 hours one week later, another
assessment sheet is completed by the auditor processing him whether it
is the same auditor or not. The reason for this is the preclear changes,
his memory improves, and things can have happened in that one week he
was not processed.

    ~Is this part of the preclear's auditing time?:~ Yes, it is. The
questions asked are to a degree auditing because the auditor is asking
the preclear to look and to recall.

    ~Purpose of preclear assessment sheet:~ The purpose of this form is
to establish auditor control over the preclear, to

                DRUGS 503

better acquaint the auditor with his preclear, and to provide essential
information required.

    ~Neatness of preclear assessment sheet:~ If you cannot write plainly
and neatly, print all the data required. Information is wanted, not
mysterious cryptographics.


                                 Date_________

                Preclear Assessment Sheet

Name of Pc____Age of Pc____TA Position at Start
                           of Assessment___
Auditor___________________ D of P's initials___

    A. ~Family:~

1. Is mother living?________ E-meter reaction___
2. Date of death__________ E-meter reaction___

3. Pc's statement of relationship with mother ____
_______________________________________
_______________________E-meter reaction___

4. Is Father Living?________ E-meter reaction___
5. Date of death___________E-meter reaction___

6. Pc's statement of relationship with father______
_______________________________________
_______________________E-meter reaction___

7. List brothers, sisters, and other relatives of the
pc, date of death of any and E-meter reaction:

Relation    Date of Death      E-meter Reaction
_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________

                504 BOOK THREE

_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________

8. Where and with whom do you live?_________
______________________________________

9. Are you currently associated with anyone who
is antagonistic to mental or spiritual treatment or
Scientology?
(If yes, who?):___________________________

    B. ~Marital Status:~

1. Married__Single__No. of times divorced_____

2. Pc's statement of relationship with spouse___
______________________________________
_____________________E-meter reaction____

3. List any marital difficulties pc presently has___
_____________________E-meter reaction____

4. If divorced, list reasons for divorce and pc's
emotional feeling about divorce______________
______________________________________
____________________E-meter reaction_____

5. List children, date of death of any child and
E-meter reaction.

Children    Date of Death      E-meter Reaction
_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________
_________    __________        _____________

                DRUGS 505

    C. ~Education Level:~

State the level of schooling pc has had, university
education, or professional training______________
________________________________________
_______________________E-meter reaction____

    D. ~Professional Life:~

    State main jobs pc has held.
  Job                        E-meter reaction
______________________  _________________
______________________  _________________
______________________  _________________
______________________  _________________
______________________  _________________

    E. ~Accidents:~

List any serious accidents pc has had, the date
of such, any permanent physical damage, and
E-meter reaction.

Accident Date  Physical Damage  E-meter reaction
_______  ____  ______________  ____________
_______  ____  ______________  ____________
_______  ____  ______________  ____________
_______  ____  ______________  ____________

    F. ~Illnesses:~

List any serious illness (excepting usual childhood
diseases, colds, etc.) giving date of such, any
permanent physical damage, and E-meter reaction.

                506 BOOK THREE

Illness Date  Physical Damage  E-meter reaction
_____  _____ ______________ _____________
_____  _____ ______________ _____________
_____  _____ ______________ _____________
_____  _____ ______________ _____________
_____  _____ ______________ _____________

    G. ~Operations:~

List any operation, the date of each and E-meter
reaction.

Operation       Date          E-meter reaction
_________________ ________ ____________
_________________ ________ ____________
_________________ ________ ____________
_________________ ________ ____________
_________________ ________ ____________

    H. ~Present Physical Condition:~

List any bad physical condition pc presently
has and E-meter reaction to such.

Physical Condition          E-meter reaction
_________________________  _____________
_________________________  _____________
_________________________  _____________
_________________________  _____________

                DRUGS 507

    I. ~Mental Treatment:~

List any psychiatric, psychoanalytic, hypnotic,
mystical or occult exercises, or other mental
treatment which pc has had, the date of the
treatment and E-meter reaction.

Treatment          Date      E-meter reaction
___________________ ______ _____________
___________________ ______ _____________
___________________ ______ _____________

    J. ~Drugs:~

    Are you taking any drugs currently?

What Drug    Date (How Long)  E-meter reaction
___________ ______________ ______________
___________ ______________ ______________
___________ ______________ ______________

    Have you ever taken drugs?

What Drug       Dates        E-meter reaction
___________ _______________ _____________
___________ _______________ _____________
___________ _______________ _____________
___________ _______________ _____________
___________ _______________ _____________

    K. ~Disability Payment or Pension:~

List any disability payment or pension received by
the pc, what it is for, how much and for bow long it has
been received.

                508   BOOK THREE

What For   How Much   When   E-meter reaction
_________ __________ _______ _____________
_________ __________ _______ _____________

    L. ~Any Familial History of Insanity?~

Who      What       When      E-meter reaction
________ __________ _______ ______________
________ __________ _______ ______________

    M. ~Medicines:~

    List any medicine currently or previously taken.

What              When      E-meter reaction
_________________ _________ _____________
_________________ _________ _____________
_________________ _________ _____________
_________________ _________ _____________

    N. ~Eyes~                   E-meter reaction

Any tint in eye white ________   _____________
Eye Color             ________   _____________
Color Blindness       ________   _____________
Glasses               ________   _____________


    O. ~Body Weight~            E-meter reaction

Overweight?           _________  _____________
Underweight?          _________  _____________

                DRUGS 509


    P. ~Any perception difficulties~

     What                    E-meter reaction
_________________________   ______________
_________________________   ______________

    Q. ~Any perception       E-meter reaction
       trouble in family~
_________________________   ______________
_________________________   ______________

    R. ~Sick or Disabled Family~ E-meter reaction
_________________________   _______________
_________________________   _______________

    S. ~Earlier Allies or Close Friends~
_________________________   _______________
_________________________   _______________
_________________________   _______________

    T. ~Husband or Wife Physical
        Troubles--What~
_________________________   _______________
_________________________   _______________
_________________________   _______________

    U. ~Attitude Towards Illness~
_________________________  ________________
_________________________  ________________
_________________________  ________________

                510 BOOK THREE

    V. ~Attitude Towards Treatment~
_________________________ _________________
_________________________ _________________

    W. ~Any Current Treatment in
           Progress~
_________________________ _________________
_________________________ _________________

    X. ~Compulsions, Repressions
          and Fears~

List any compulsions (things pc feels compelled to do),
repressions (things pc must prevent himself from doing)
and any fears of pc.

   Compulsions, Etc.        E-meter Reaction
__________________________ _________________
__________________________ _________________
__________________________ _________________

Are you trying to change something someone else
doesn't like?
__________________________ _________________

    Y. ~Criminal Record:~

List any crime committed by pc, prison sentence, if any,
and E-meter reactions:

 Crime          Sentence       E-meter reaction
_______________ _____________ _______________
_______________ _____________ _______________
_______________ _____________ _______________
_______________ _____________ _______________

                DRUGS 511

    Z. ~Interests and Hobbies:~

    List any interests and hobbies of pc.

   Interests and Hobbies       E-meter reaction
____________________________ _______________
____________________________ _______________
____________________________ _______________
____________________________ _______________


    ARE YOU HERE ON YOUR OWN
    SELF-DETERMINISM?
____________________________ ______________

    AA. ~Previous Scientology Processing:~

1. List auditors, hours, and E-meter reactions to any
processing done other than in the HGC or Academy.

Auditor         Hours          E-meter reaction
_______________  ___________  _____________
_______________  ___________  _____________
_______________  ___________  _____________
_______________  ___________  _____________

2. List briefly processes run ______________
_________________________________________
_________________________________________

3. List goals attained from such processing __
_________________________________________
_________________________________________

4. List goals not attained from such processing _
_________________________________________

                512 BOOK THREE

_________________________________________

    BB. ~Present Processing Goals:~

    List all present goals of pc and E-meter reaction to each.

 Goal                        E-meter reaction
___________________________ ________________
___________________________ ________________
___________________________ ________________
___________________________ ________________

Tone arm position at end of assessment ____________


    Name: Preclear Assessment Sheet Unbull-baited.

    Purpose: To train the student auditor in doing a preclear assessment
sheet on a doll.

    Position: Student auditor seated at a table with an E-meter and a
preclear assessment sheet; across the table is a doll.

    Training Stress: This drill is not coached. The student auditor
starts
the session and does a complete preclear assessment sheet on the doll.
He does this until he feels very good about his handling of the
questions. He is passed when he can call off all questions of the sheet
keeping in all TRs and can maintain proper session admin.

    Name: Preclear Assessment Sheet Bull-baited.

    Purpose: To train the student auditor to be able to do a preclear
assessment sheet through any distractions.

    Position: Student auditor seated at a table fully set up as for a
session, with a coach in the chair opposite the auditor.

    Training Stress: This drill is the same as for auditing on a doll
except that the "pc" coach bull-baits the student auditor during the
session in an attempt to throw the student off session. The coach
answers as always with mocked up answers, not real ones. The coach
squeezes the cans for reads. And uses a pencil to indicate F/Ns.

                DRUGS 513

    Flunks are given for any improper commands, procedures, comm lags,
break in TRs or improper session admin. The coach gives the "Start," the
flunking or "That's it." If the student is not making the grade he is
returned to the earlier TR that is out. This drill is coached tough and
only passed when the student is totally competent, exact and correct in
all commands, procedures and session admin with excellent TRs and no
slightest variation from or additives to doing a standard preclear
assessment sheet.

    (See steps for preclear assessment sheet.)

    Steps:

    1. Take a preclear assessment sheet.

    2. Give a brief R-factor on the preclear assessment sheet.

    3. Ask each question on the preclear assessment sheet in turn,
clearing questions as needed.

    4. Mark TA each time its position changes and all reads on
questions.

    5. Note his answer and any physical or emotional reactions.

    6. Make sure pc gives specific answers and get complete answers.

    7. Indicate any F/Ns that occur with good indicators.

    8. Repeat 3-7 throughout the sheet.

    9. On questions such as drugs, accident, psychiatric history, ask
any further questions necessary in order to get the required
information.

    10. Get the full data and note the reads.

    11. Have additional worksheets available and use as needed.

    12. Upon completion of the sheet say, "That completes the preclear
assessment sheet, thank you very much."

    (This action may be done in more than one session if necessary.)

    Second: Class VIII Drug Rundown is done as it is given below.

    a. Start the session. Clear the words of L3RD and R3R commands.

    b. Using the data from the Pc Assessment Sheet, rehab in turn each
drug by counting the number of times released for each type of drug to
F/N.

                514 BOOK THREE

    c. Run three-way recall (each leg run repetitively to EP--F/N,
cognition, VGIs).

    F1. "Recall another giving you drugs."--EP, F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    F2. "Recall giving drugs to another."--EP, F/N, cognition, VGIs.

    F3. "Recall another giving drugs to others."--EP, F/N, cognition,
VGIs.

    d. Run three way secondaries (each leg to EP,--F/N, cognition,
VGIs).

    F1. "Locate an incident containing loss or emotion of another giving
you drugs." Full R3R procedure Steps 1-9 and A to D to EP--F/N,
cognition, VGIs.

    F1. ~Going earlier:~ "Is there an earlier incident containing loss
or emotion of another giving you drugs?"

    F2. "Locate an incident containing loss or emotion of you giving
drugs to another." R3R procedure.

    F2. ~Going earlier:~ "Is there an earlier incident containing loss
or emotion of you giving drugs to another?"

    F3. "Locate an incident containing loss or emotion of another giving
drugs to others." R3R procedure.

    F3. ~Going earlier:~ "Is there an earlier incident containing loss
or emotion of another giving drugs to others?"

    e. Run three-way engrams (each leg to EP--F/N, cognition, VGIs).

    F1. "Locate an incident containing pain and unconsciousness of
another giving you drugs." Full R3R procedure, to EP--F/N, cognition,
VGIs.

    F1. ~Going earlier:~ "Is there an earlier incident containing pain
and unconsciousness of another giving you drugs?"

    F2. "Locate an incident containing pain and unconsciousness of you
giving drugs to another." R3R procedure.

    F2. ~Going earlier:~ "Is there an earlier incident containing pain
and unconsciousness of you giving drugs to another?"

    F3. "Locate an incident containing pain and unconsciousness of
another giving drugs to others." R3R procedure.

                DRUGS 515

    F3. ~Going earlier:~ "Is there an earlier incident containing pain
and unconsciousness of another giving drugs to others?"

    Third: Somatics Connected with Taking Drugs:

    Somatic chains connected with each drug taken are run. This is
handled as in drug handling, outlined previously.


¤Drug and Alcohol Cases Prior Assessing¤


    Those cases which have been long and habitually on drugs and alcohol
sometimes suffer from a "SOMATIC SHUT-OFF." They appear anaesthetized
(unfeeling) and sometimes have "nothing troubling them" whereas they are
on drugs, drink and are in reality in a suppressed physical condition
and cannot cease to take drugs or drink.

    One can find in such a case, a very high TA which doesn't seem to
reduce. The TA can be brought down by auditing the drug and alcohol
engrams as a chain.

    However, there is another approach.

    Any such case took up drugs or alcohol because of unwanted pain or
sensation or misemotion. You can use that as a stable datum which
resolves the situation.

    All it requires is a special assessment called a PRIOR ASSESSMENT.
For the person looked on drugs or alcohol as a cure for unwanted
feelings. One has to assess what was wrong ~before~ or prior to the
cure.

    You determine if the person is on drugs or alcohol habitually. If
so, you determine which was earlier.

    Now you ask for and list the pains, sensations, emotions or feelings
he or she had before taking drugs or alcohol.

    In doing this assessment, you must grab the read and mark it plainly
as it occurs. If you just list and then go over the list the person may
be back in present time and, as these are now cut off by the masses of
drug or alcohol engrams on top of them, they won't read again. So you
must catch the read as the person first mentions it.

    You choose the longest read and find and run the chain by R3R as in
any other Standard Dianetic auditing.

    The only difference is the assessment time period. You are listing
for a time before they went on drugs or alcohol.

                516 BOOK THREE

    The running out of the chain of unwanted feelings they had before
going on drugs or alcohol removes the reason they started taking drugs,
smoking marijuana or drinking. The compulsion to still use drugs or
drink is lessened and they can come off it.

    This can also be used as a working rule to get earlier than any
"curative" activity. Almost anything which comes later is a cure for
something earlier. It could be said that the present time being is a
compound of past cures. To handle, the action would be the same as for
drugs or alcohol. List the unwanted pains or feelings before the cure
and run the longest reads by R3R.

    As there will be more than one chain involved, you of course take
your next longest read and run that next, just as in any assessment.

    The general term for this type of assessment is PRIOR assessing, not
because it is done before auditing but to determine what the pc was
suffering from before he used a harmful "cure."

    These are the steps for running the Drug Rundown and Prior
Assessment:

    1. Make sure your pc has had a thorough Dianetic C/S 1 either by
folder inspection or by asking the pc directly.

    1a. Write down the drugs from the pc assessment sheet. Take the drug
that reads best on the meter.

    2. Clear the first assessment question in Step 3.

    3. List "What attitudes are connected with taking (the drug)."

    4. Take the best reading Dianetic item from the list in Step 3. Run
R3R triple. If you get an LFBD item, run that. ~Do not check interest~.

    5. Complete items found in Step 3 with R3R triple.

    6. Reassess any remaining unrun items to see if they now read. If
they do--run them. Also, check for any more items the pc has to add to
the list and mark them down with their reads.

    7. Repeat Steps 3-6 on any items found.

    8. When there are no more items to add, and no further items
reading--but there are some unrun items on the list, null with
~suppress~ and ~invalidate~.

                DRUGS 517

    9. Run any now reading items R3R triple.

    10. Exhaust the list.

    11. Repeat Steps 2-10 handling the emotions, sensations and pains
connected with (the drug). Handle each area separately and in this exact
order (AESP).

    12. Take the next drug (from Step 1 above) that reads and repeat
Steps 2-11 on it.

    13. Use up the whole list of drugs in this way until the entire list
of drugs F/Ns when called. (Note: if, during the rundown, the pc thinks
of other drugs he has taken, add them to the list with their reads noted
and handle them in turn according to the size of read.)

    ~Note:~ Interest is not checked in running drug items. Run all items
that read when the pc gave them or read on subsequent calling.

    The prior assessment to drugs (or alcohol) is done R3R triple.

    Steps:

    1. Clear the first prior assessment question given in Step 2.

    2. List "What attitudes did you have prior to taking drugs (or
alcohol)."

    3. Take the best-reading Dianetic item from the list in Step 2 and
run R3R triple. If you get an LFBD item, run that first.

    4. Complete items found on Step 2 above with R3R triple.

    5. Reassess any remaining unrun items to see if they now read. If
they do--run them. Also check for any more items the pc has to add to
the list.

    6. Repeat Steps 3-5 on any items found.

    7. When no more items to add, and no further items reading--but
there are some unrun items on the list--null with "suppress" and
"invalidate."

    8. Run any now reading items.

    9. Exhaust the list.

    10. Repeat Steps 2-9 handling the emotions, sensations and pains
prior to taking the drugs or alcohol. Handle each area separately and in
this exact order (AESP).

                518 BOOK THREE


¤Catastrophe of "No Interest" Items¤


    I have done a review of several former drug cases.

    ~The common factor in every one was CASE BY-PASSED DUE TO "NO
INTEREST."~

    The auditor finds a reading drug item and proposes to run R3R on it.
The auditor asks if the pc is interested in running it. The pc says
"No." The auditor does not run it. ~Bang~, we have a ~by-passed case~.

    The pc will blow or go sour or not recover.

    One of these cases was unchanged after "a drug rundown." He had a
pair of eyes that looked like blank disks. Check of folder showed all
major drug items "not run due to no interest." The solution was to
recover the lists, run the items that had read R3R triple and complete
the case.

    Each flubbed case I have found has had his drug items left unrun on
R3R due to "no interest."

    ~So don't ask for interest on drug items~.

    ~If they read, run them!~

    1. On any stumbling case that has had a "drug rundown" get the
folder FESed to see if reading items were left unrun on R3R triple. List
them chronologically, early to late.

    2. Get the case back, with an R-factor of "incomplete."

    3. Run every one of those unrun drug items.

    4. If the items don't now read, then get in "suppress" and
"invalidate" on them.

    5. If the case bogs do L3RD Method 5 and handle on that chain only.

    6. Go on with the action and complete it.

    It has been found that Quickie* Drug Rundowns have crept into
existence.

    It is essential that ~every reading drug~ is fully handled.

    ~Do not check for pc interest when doing a Drug Rundown~. Take up
each reading item in order of greatest read, and fully handle each one.

    Not fully handling each reading item to erasure leaves the person
open to a return to drugs.

    There are three main ways a Drug Rundown can be done quickie:

                DRUGS 519

    1. Not run all reading items to erasure because of no pc interest.

    2. Not do ~all~ steps of the Drug Rundown, in sequence.

    3. The pc can't run engrams. (Indicates by-passed steps in the
rundown itself.)

    Any person who has had a quickie Drug Rundown should be fully
completed.


¤Unhandled Drugs and Ethics¤


    Several cases have come to light where the person was permitted to
go on to upper grades, Power and even OT levels whose drugs had not been
handled.

    In each case there was no or poor case gain, organizational upsets
and wasted auditing.

    ~Therefore it becomes firm policy that any C/S, or auditor who
permits a person with unhandled or partially handled drugs to be audited
on anything but a full and complete Drug Rundown including no interest
items will be subject to a Committee of Evidence* with a minimum penalty
of treason and a maximum penalty of expulsion~.

    The technology must not be made to fail because of overt, covert or
ignorant misapplication of the technology.

    It is fully established that a chief cause of failure in cases is
unhandled or only partially handled drugs including medical drugs,
treatments and alcohol. This is a barrier to case gain and in this
society at this time, the major barrier.

    Where drugs have not been handled or only partially handled, the ~No
Interference Zone Rule~ is waived.


¤Dianetics, Beginning a Pc On¤


    Make Dianetics work fully in our modern culture.

    ~Begin Dianetics with a Pc Assessment Sheet~.

    ~If you get any TA action or reads on drugs even if the pc says "No"
the first Dianetic action is to handle drugs~.

    If the pc is currently on drugs, then the Special Drug TR Course ~is
vital~ until the pc is off them. ~Then~ do the drug rundown.

                520 BOOK THREE

    If you get a read on Part E of assessment sheet, accidents, run them
out narrative R3R triple. (Check pc interest.)

    If illness Part F assessment sheet reads, run it out narrative R3R
triple. (If pc interested.)

    If mental treatment reads, run it out narrative R3R triple. (With pc
interest.)

    If operations Part G reads run the reading one out narrative R3R
triple. (Check interest.)

    If medicine Part M reads ~treat it~ per drug handling, as it reacts
like any other drug but pcs don't sometimes think of medicines as drugs
when they are.

    If deaths of relatives, etc., read on Part 7, run them out narrative
as ~secondaries R3R triple~. (Check interest.)

    If Part L reads on a member of the family going insane, run it out
narrative ~secondaries R3R triple~. (Check interest.)

    Lack of perception (sight, hearing, etc.) comes from overts and
improves when flow 2 is done on any of the above or any R3R. (Check
interest.)

    The C/S programs the case from the assessment sheet as above, using
drugs or medicines first and the rest by largest reads first.

    Narrative items or incidents were used for years with great effect.
~But the item must be done R3R triple~ and is once in a while very long.

    Repair by L3RD ~any flubbed Dianetic session or chain within
twenty-four hours~. Do not let it go unrepaired.

    ~When~ any and all of the above are handled, then and only then
proceed with the usual health form by item.

    The pc in many cases won't be able to run engrams at all unless you
run out drugs or medicines first. They will run these and these alone
until the engrams are gone.

    People who "can't run engrams" are usually drug cases.

    This is ~correct~ Dianetic programming.

    ~Make Dianetics work for you~.

    Program it correctly. C/S it correctly.

    It won't work unless used on where the pc's attention is.

    ~It will work if you use it~.


                CHAPTER 7

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH

    As one needs a guide to know what to audit on a case, the Dianetic
Health Form* is an essential auditing action.

    Also, some cases do not know they have recovered.

    It is Scientology that addresses improved awareness, not Dianetics.
Dianetics accomplishes an eradication of the unwanted condition and when
it is gone it is gone. The pc will not again mention it in many cases
and it would be an error to hammer him about being better now.

    ~Therefore~ a second Health Form gives a comparison. The somatics
and pains not mentioned in the second which were in the first can be
considered to be gone.

    A second form done later gives the auditor and (when a Case
Supervisor is also on the case) the Case Supervisor an indication of the
actual improvement. A few days, weeks or months can elapse between
giving the form. This gives an indication of improvement. Any number of
Health Forms can be given.

    One of the old problems of Dianetics was that the pc recovered from
his arthritis fully and then only nagged the

                522 BOOK THREE

auditor about a new symptom. It wasn't that the pc ~had~ to have an
illness (only the 19th century psychologist believed that it was no use
to cure anything as the patient just got something else). The fact is
that the symptoms of the pc are ~several~, not just one.

    You take up and audit ~each~ symptom or complaint to erasure of its
picture, one after the other.

    This is a new advance in Dianetics--that a preclear's illness or
upset has more than one source. His illness or upset is a ~composite~.

    You audit the most available symptom first until the picture causing
it is erased. Then find the next one and audit it to erasure of its
picture, then the next, etc.

    The symptom which has the longest read and also in which the pc is
interested is the one to do first. You run its chain to erasure of basic
and it vanishes.

    Then do the one which has the longest read (omitting the first from
the list) and in which he is interested and run its secondary or engram
or chain to erasure.

    Now find the next symptom, etc.

    Sooner or later the pc will have a well, healthy body, stability and
a sense of well being.

    One finds "an incident which could have caused that," dates it
loosely, runs it as an incident without pushing hard, gets an earlier
similar incident and runs that, or even a third or fourth earlier
similar (each time earlier) incident until a floating needle or the pc
indicates the PICTURE IS GONE (has erased).

    Then one finds out what may now be bothering the pc by new
assessment and does the same action on it.

    You can expect each chain erased to end with GOOD INDICATORS, pc
smiling and happy. It is not all done in one session.

    You only end a session really when a pc is smiling and happy after
an erasure of the basic picture on the chain.

    Sooner or later the pc will become bright, happy, symptom-free,
stable and have a well body. Then one shifts the preclear off into
Scientology auditing to bring about maximum intelligence and ability.
Symptoms are pains, emotional feelings, tiredness, pressures,
sensations, unwanted states of the body, etc.

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 523

    If you are auditing without a meter, you take the pc's ~interest~ as
the indicator. You audit the symptom in which he is interested and cease
to audit it when it is gone. This, however, is very chancy and often
fails, so an E-meter is recommended.

    You can use whatever is given on the original Health Form that was
done until the form is no longer valid or until the pc's good indicators
are in. When the pc brightens up, that's the end of the Health Form. A
new one must be done WHEN THE PC IS AGAIN FEELING BAD,
TIRED OR WORRIED.

    The purpose of any session or series of sessions is to get the pc
feeling well and happy.

    Sometimes the pc's condition is obvious and the engram equally
obvious. The pc has just had a child. The delivery of it and any earlier
similar engram is of course audited at once. Any recent experience is so
handled.

    If a pc wants no auditing and yet is ill or miserable, one finds out
~why~ he doesn't want to be audited by getting him to explain (when he
will become auditable) or one finds and runs as secondaries, engrams or
chains bad experiences with treatment. The best answer to a difficult pc
is to send him or her for a Scientology Review and ~then~ begin
Dianetics.

    If the pc doesn't recover at all, then the Auditor's Code has been
violated or the engrams were overrun or not run long enough to erase or
the pc was very ill medically and should have had a medical examination
first.

    But even with poor auditing it is rare for a pc not to recover.

    Of course, the more skilled (follows the Auditor's Code, knows his
meter, knows his Dianetics) the auditor is, the more certain recovery
becomes.

    The worst crime is overwhelming the pc by telling him what's wrong,
not letting him tell you.

    The Health Form is of very great assistance in handling all this.
The use of it is as follows:

    1. The auditor sits down with the pc (usually the pc on a meter) and
explains he's going to do a Health Form and try to help the pc.

    2. The form is completed.

                524 BOOK THREE

    3. The auditor picks out by meter or by asking the pc which symptom
he has his attention on.

    4. The auditor finds an incident that had that symptom in it, dates
it and runs the incident as per R3R.

    5. The incident, picture (and symptom) erases or the auditor finds
an earlier similar incident, dates it, etc., until the pictures and
symptoms are gone.

    6. A new symptom is located on the Health Form by meter and its
chain is erased. Each chain should leave the pc cheerful if not
completely well.

    7. Steps 4 and 5 are repeated.

    8. A new symptom is located on the Health Form or by pc's complaint.

    9. Steps 4 and 5 are repeated.

    10. We go on doing this until the pc is suddenly well, smiling and
happy and at that moment we at once desist.

    11. We tell the pc that is the end of the session.

    Note: If several sessions were required to do the above start each
new one by telling the pc it's started and end each session by telling
the pc the session is ended.

    Each session is written down as it is done and preserved for future
correction or use.


¤Somatics¤


    All chains are held together by one similar ~feeling~. Chains are
not held together by narratives or personnel or locations. They are held
together by FEELINGS. Thus we ~ask for and follow down only feelings~.
Those can be pains, sensations, misemotion--any feeling.

    You must run only by somatic, not by narrative. Narrative means
"Falls down stairs," "An earlier fight with brother." By ~somatic~ is
meant a pain or sensation and also misemotion or even unconsciousness.
There are a thousand different descriptive words that could add up to a
~feeling~. Pain, dizziness, sadness--these are all ~feelings~.
Awareness, pleasant or unpleasant of a body, is what we are trying to
run in Dianetics.

    One never assesses medical terms or symptoms.

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 525

    An engram contains pain and unconsciousness. So its basic would be a
physical duress not a symptom resulting from that duress.

    Example: The pc says "headache." You assess headache, you try to run
"headaches" and all you ever get is times a pc had a headache. Well, the
headache is a symptom caused by a head ~injury~. The engram must have
contained a shot in the head or a crushed skull or some actual injury.
The word "headache" would describe only how the head feels later when
the engram occasionally goes into restimulation.

    So you would get only locks and secondaries to audit and only by
chance and an alteration by the pc of the command to find an earlier
headache would you ever get to an engram in which the head was crushed
or injured. "Headache" is the ~result~ of a head injury, and it doesn't
describe the injury which, in engram form, is now giving the pc
headaches.

    Take the medical term arthritis. You could ask for arthritis and get
only visits to the doctor or times in a wheel chair. The physical injury
contained in the engram causing the arthritis is not described.

    Alcoholism would present the same problem. If the pc listed and the
auditor assessed "alcoholism" we would only get times when he was drunk,
not the engram causing the symptom which might contain "feeling very
dry."

    Therefore one has more than one column on a Health Form. One would
give the physical disability or complaint. The second would be the pc's
description of the ~feeling~. We would land the real engram every time,
not only its locks or secondaries. (It is quite all right to run locks
and secondaries as it is necessary to unburden the chain and increase
the pc's confront, but chains always end up in a basic engram at the
bottom and if you don't get and erase that then the chain will key-in
again.)

    In asking for list items one puts down only what the pc says. That's
an invariable rule. But when the pc says some mere symptom like
"headache" or medical term like "arthritis" the auditor writes it down
but ~also~ asks "What is the

                526 BOOK THREE

feeling of that?" or some such question and writes what the pc then says
~and only assesses the feeling stated~.

    Example: Pc says a complaint is "~sinusitis~. " The auditor writes
it down. But asks also for the feeling of it. The pc says "A burning
sensation in the nose." In assessing the list the auditor does not call
out "sinusitis." He says "A burning sensation in the nose." And marks
down its meter read.

    If the auditor took and assessed only "~sinusitis~" and then asked
for incidents of sinusitis he would get only locks and
secondaries--times when the engram was in restimulation. And he would
rarely get the real basic and engram that causes the symptom.

    This discovery opens the door to swift "cures." But one is obviously
not treating ~sinusitis~. He is looking for an incident in which there
was a "burning sensation in the nose." And after a few locks and upper
engrams he'd find and run the real injury in which the nose was burned.


                PASTORAL COUNSELING
                    HEALTH FORM


    This form is done by an auditor. It is metered.

    Don't try to handle items as the pc gives them unless an item BDs
and the pc is interested. Otherwise assess after it is done. It also
should be reassessed for additional items to run.

    If the pc gives you a medical term (e.g., migraine headache) as an
illness, write it down in the first column then ask the pc what the
somatic is (e.g., pain in head) write that down in the second column and
note beside it any read. There is no rote command. Get somatics (not
incidents) that can be assessed and run.

    If the pc gives you a ~somatic~ don't then ask for the feeling of
it. Just write it down in the second column with its read and carry on
down the list. If the pc gives you a several somatics in response to one
illness, write down each as a separate somatic. Assess only the second
column. Do not assess multiple somatics (i.e., several somatics as one
item) and do not assess items that are not somatics. Do not assess
narrative items. Do not accept or assess considerations.

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 527

    Remember that an illness has more than one somatic to be audited out
before it is wholly gone.

    Persons medically ill should be sent for a medical exam.

    Cross those off that have been run until the form is completely
handled.

    The end product of this form is entirely to pick out what to audit.


Preclear___________________ Date____________
Auditor  __________________ Church__________
TA position at start of form

Answer                  Feeling                      Meter Read
^^^^^^                  ^^^^^^^                      ^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Do you have any CURRENT ILLNESS?

2. Have you RECENTLY had any ILLNESS?

3. Do you have any RECURRING ILLNESS?

4. Do you have any CURRENT MISEMOTION?

5. Have you RECENTLY had any MISEMOTION?

6. Do you have any RECURRING MISEMOTION?

7. Do you have any ACHES?

8. Have you RECENTLY had any ACHES?

9. Do you have any RECURRING ACHES?

10. Do you have any PAINS?

11. Have you RECENTLY had any PAINS?

12. Do you have any RECURRING PAINS?

13. Do you have any INJURED BODY PART?

14. Do you have any PRESENT DISEASE?

                528  BOOK THREE

15. Do you have any RECURRING DISEASE?

16. Do you have any PRESENT INFECTION?

17. Do you have any RECURRING INFECTION?

18. Do you have any PRESENT VENEREAL INFECTION?

19. Do you have any RASH?

20. Do you have any RECURRING RASH?

21. Do you have any UNWANTED SENSATIONS?

22. Have you RECENTLY had any UNWANTED SENSATIONS?

23. Do you have any CONTINUING UNWANTED SENSATIONS?

24. Do you have any RECURRING UNWANTED SENSATIONS?

25. Do you have any TEETH TROUBLES?

26. Do you have any other PHYSICAL CONDITION YOU WANT TO MENTION?

27. Do you have any unwanted ATTITUDE?

28. Is there something you wanted handled which wasn't?

Are these all the complaints? (If question reads get the additional
complaints. Mention such things as VD in case pc is embarrassed to
mention them.)

    Cross off what has been run. Completely handle the form.

    Add new items in subsequent sessions if pc gives them.

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 529


¤Secondaries and Engrams Triple¤


    Dianetic secondary and engram triples, the commands of which address
the overall subject of loss, pain and unconsciousness, are the final
step of Dianetics before the pc starts up the Scientology Grade Chart.
Running secondaries and engrams triple gives one a Dianetic release.


RECALL STEP:

F1       "Recall losing something."         To EP__

F2       "Recall another losing something." To EP__

F3       "Recall others losing something    To EP__
         of anothers."

Havingness:
           (one process) Notice that________To EP__

SECONDARY TRIPLE STEPS:

F1:       "Locate an incident of another causing
          you loss and misemotion."
F1        "Is there an earlier incident of
earlier:  another causing you loss and
          misemotion."
          R3R to F/N + Cog + VGIs and erasure.__

F2:       "Locate an incident of your causing
          another loss and misemotion."
F2        "Is there an earlier incident of your
earlier:  causing another loss and misemotion?"
          R3R to F/N + Cog + VGIs and erasure.__

F3:       "Locate an incident of another causing
          others loss and misemotion."
F3        "Is there an earlier incident of another
earlier:  causing others loss and misemotion?"
          R3R to F/N + Cog + VGIs and erasure.__

                530 BOOK THREE

    If the pc drops into the underlying engram chain on any secondary
flow being run, before F/N on the chain, continue down the ~engram~
chain to F/N and note the fact so that the engram flow will not be run
again in error. After F/N on that engram chain, take up the next
remaining secondary flow.


Havingness:

F1:      "Tell me something you could touch." To EP__

F2:      "Tell me something another could
         touch."                              To EP__

F3:      "Tell me something another could
         get others to touch."                To EP__

Dianetic Engrams, Triple

F1:       "Locate an incident of another causing
          you pain and unconsciousness."
F1        "Is there an earlier incident of another
earlier:  causing you pain and unconsciousness?"
          R3R to F/N + Cog + VGIs and erasure.__

F2:       "Locate an incident of you causing
          another pain and unconsciousness."
F2        "Is there an earlier incident of you caus-
earlier:  ing another pain and unconsciousness?"
          R3R to F/N + Cog + VGIs and erasure.__

F3:       "Locate an incident of another causing
          others pain and unconsciousness."
F3        "Is there an earlier incident of another
earlier:  causing others pain and unconsciousness?"
          R3R to F/N + Cog + VGIs and erasure.__

Havingness:

F1:       "Look around here and find something
          you like."                              To EP__

F2:       "Look around here and find something
          another would like."                    To EP__

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 531

F3:       "Look around here and find something
          another could get others to like."      To EP__


¤Dianetics and Illness¤


    Although mention of this is made elsewhere the facts about ~illness~
do not seem, in practice, to reach the case supervisors or Dianetic
auditors.

    The idea that one can always get rid of an illness by auditing ~one~
chain to basic is false. Man dreams about "one-shot" cures to a point
where he could be accused of being impotent!

    Here is an example: A preclear "has always wanted to get his
bronchitis handled." In Dianetics a list is made for chest or lung pains
or sensations. ~One~ is chosen and erased. The "bronchitis" is now
better or even absent for a few days. Then we have the preclear back
again saying "It didn't cure my bronchitis."

    Enough cases are handled successfully by running ~one~ chain on a
somatic that people get stuck in the win.

    Here is another example: The pc says he has migraine headaches. The
auditor assesses a "head pain" quite correctly and then runs out one
chain. The migraine does not occur for a week after. Then here's the pc
again saying "I've still got a headache."

    All this is invalidative of the technology and the auditing.

    The ~fact~ is that the illness was not properly handled or C/Sed or
audited.

    In the first place a pc trying to get cured of bronchitis or
migraine--or any one of a dozen dozen other illnesses--should be sent
for medical examination. How do you know the bronchitis isn't
tuberculosis? Or the migraine headache isn't a fractured skull?

    A "continual side pain" may be a gallstone.

    In short, something which continually hurts or disables may be
structural or physical.

    So, when you omit the first action (medical) in handling an illness,
you set up an auditor for a possible failure.

    Many of these things can be cured medically without too much heroic
action.

                532 BOOK THREE

    If it ~is~ medical and can be cured medically, then it should be.

    Also it should be audited. This lets the medical treatment work.
Many "incurable" illnesses become curable medically when they are also
audited.

    The second thing that gets overlooked is that ~an illness is a
composite~ (composed of many) ~somatics~.

    The correct auditing action on "bronchitis" or "chest trouble" or
"migraine headache" or any other continual worrisome illness is to
continue to find somatics, sensations, feelings, emotions or even
attitudes in the area affected and run their chains.

    It takes more than one chain of engrams to build up an ill area.

    Having found and run the "deflated feeling" of bronchitis, which was
the first best read, the C/S should order and the auditor find and run
the ~next~ somatic, sensation, feeling, emotion or attitude in ~that~
area.

    It is sometimes necessary to add to the list ~for that area~ of the
body.

    Seeing a continual or recurring illness on the health form the C/S
and auditor should dig out of that area every somatic, sensation,
feeling, emotion and attitude that can be made to read and run those
chains, each one to basic and erasure.

    ~That~ is the way you handle any illness, whether continual or
temporary.

    The maxim is that ~it takes more than one chain of engrams to make a
body ill~.

    Continual reassessing and adding to general lists will get there
eventually, providing it is done long enough. But this general approach
will find a certain number of pcs saying "I've still got my . . ."

    It is in fact a false report. They don't still have all of it. It is
one chain less and therefore better.

    But auditing gives gains by ~deletion~. A pc does not suffer from
what has been erased. He suffers only from that which has not yet been
handled.

    Some persons tried years ago to get their trouble handled, somebody
or some practice failed and after that

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 533

they don't mention it at all. They don't support the technology anymore
either.

    So, in handling illness, give the handling of the structural disease
side of it to the medical doctor, and thoroughly handle ~all~ the mental
side of it with auditing and everyone wins.

    Any person colliding with "My lumbosis was not handled" should call
this data to the attention of the person, the case supervisor and the
auditor.

    Only then can you have 100% tech.

    It will sometimes happen that a pc has a session and then three or
four days later becomes physically ill.

    The auditor may feel that auditing did it. It didn't. The auditing
given would have to be non-standard for this to happen, but the auditing
is not to blame.

    According to my friend, Dr. Stanley Lief, over a century ago
Hahnemann developed a healing technology known as homeopathy which
administered minute doses of medicine. The original theory seems to have
been that the disease or illness was still in the body and would be
released. The person would be wildly ill again and then permanently
recover. This is probably a poor statement of the whole subject of
homeopathy and its basic techniques may have worked well but have been
lost.

    In any event, the phenomenon has application here.

    We would say that the mental image picture of the incident was
stopped at a "stuck point" and that it would "run out" of itself if it
were unstabilized.

    A touch assist can do this. The person may become wildly ill after
one and then recover.

    What apparently happens is that the chain of incidents becomes
unsettled and the same incident on the chain in which the person has
been stuck for a long while runs out physically. It completes itself
which is to say, it finishes its cycle of action.

    At a hospital where I studied, this was part of the things I
observed.

    Medicine sometimes will not work on a patient. It works on others
but not on a particular one.

                534 BOOK THREE

    If that particular one is given mental attention, it will be found
that medicine will now work on the person.

    This formed one of the first application discoveries I made. From it
I inferred that function monitors structure and proceeded to investigate
mental actions and reactions in the field of illness. From this came
Dianetics some years later.

    Mental therapy prior to 1945 was so ineffective, consisting only of
19th century psychoanalysis and Russian and East European psychiatry,
that no one else seems to have observed, then or now, that "mental
blocks" are able to obstruct medical treatment of a real physical
nature.

    The proof is that when one even reduces the mental block slightly,
medicine such as antibiotics or hormones will now be effective when they
were previously ineffective on some patients.

    It is this factor which gives purely medical treatment a somewhat
random appearance. The patient is "stuck" at some point in time. Even
inadequate handling of him mentally (such as a touch assist or a poorly
or partially done session or even a "bad" session) "unsticks" the person
from the frozen or fixed "stuck" point.

    One of three things can now happen:

    1. The person can be treated medically for his illness with greater
effect.

    2. The person in two or three days gets apparently sick or sicker
but eventually recovers and is not subject to that exact sickness again
(it "ran out").

    3. No further result is noted.

    These data are ~very~ useful to a Dianetic auditor or a medical
doctor. A person can be ill and the illness not surrendering to the
usual treatment. Brief mild Dianetic auditing can be done. The medicine
may now work.

    An auditor who specializes in keying-out locks at the first F/N will
find occasionally that his preclear becomes ill in two or three days
from some occasional but long-standing illness which then "runs out" and
doesn't appear again.

    An auditor who gives a nonstandard, very poor session may find a
preclear occasionally becoming ill within the next

                THE BRIDGE TO HEALTH 535

three or four days. The auditor and others blame the auditing.

    Any auditing is better than no auditing.

    Standard Dianetics is very powerful and should only be done by
auditors trained to do it exactly.

    Sessions which are nonstandard should be corrected ~as soon as
possible~, certainly within two days or you may find the preclear
beginning to go through an illness cycle.

    The cycle was waiting to complete itself for a long time. The
auditing unsettled it. It "ran out" physically because the pc was moved
in time in the incident in which he has been "stuck."

    An understanding of this phenomena is necessary. It is useful data.
Audit a pc badly, audit a pc too much to F/Ns on locks only, give a pc
too many touch assists and you will find now and then that the
occasional pc becomes physically ill, runs a temperature etc. Before
blaming yourself too much, realize the pc has often been ill in the
past, that the mental cause of it has been loosened up and manifests
itself and runs out physically. It is not fatal. That illness won't
recur again as it has in the past.

    However, that it is not fatal to the pc is no excuse not to do a
good ~standard~ job of auditing.

    If Standard Dianetics is used ~with no departure~ from its
technology and procedure the phenomenon will not occur and no preclears
will experience a physical aftermath.

    ~Standard Dianetics~ taught precisely, done precisely only makes
people well.


                CHAPTER 8

                AUDITOR RIGHTS

    The responsibility of an auditor who receives a case supervisor
direction (C/S) of what to audit on a pc is ~not~ discharged of his
responsibility as an auditor.

    ~The auditor has a series of responsibilities that are part of every
C/S he gets to audit~.

    When the auditor gets a C/S to do on a case and if he thinks it is
not the correct thing to do he has the right to reject the C/S for that
pc and require another one he can agree to.

    The auditor does ~not~ have the right to start doing a C/S and
change it during the session except as noted below.

    The auditor may ~not~ C/S in the auditing chair while auditing the
pc. If he ~no~ case supervisor at all, the auditor still audits from a
C/S. He writes the C/S before session and adheres to it in session. To
do something else and not follow the C/S is called "C/Sing in the chair"
and is very poor form as it leads to Q & A.

    A C/S that is a week or two old or a repair (progress) program that
is a month or two old are dynamite.

                538 BOOK THREE

    This is called a "staledated program" or a "staledated C/S" meaning
it is too old to be valid.

    It should have been done sooner. The pc of last week when the C/S
was written may have been well and happily employed but a week later may
have headaches and reprimand from the boss.

    It is dangerous to accept a repair (progress) program if it is old.

The auditor who sees his C/S is old and sees the pc has bad indicators
is justified in demanding a fresh C/S giving his reasons why.

    A program written in January may be completely out of date in June.
Who knows what may have happened in between.

    Use fresh C/Ses and fresh programs.

    Staledates only occur in poorly-run, backlogged areas anyway. The
real remedy is reorganize and hire more and better auditors.

    When the C/S he has is proving unworkable ~during~ the session, the
auditor has a right to end the session and send the folder to the C/S.

    Ending the session is totally up to the auditor.

    If the auditor just doesn't complete an action that was producing TA
and could be completed it is of course a flunk. Such a case is just not
running a basic engram the one more time through that would bring the TA
down and give a proper end phenomena. This and similar actions would be
an auditor error.

    The judgment here is whether or not the auditor's action is
justified in ending the session.

    Even though he may have made an error, the auditor cannot be blamed
for the ~ending~ off of the session as that is totally up to him. He can
be given a flunk for the error.

    Auditing a pc on something else whose rudiments are out is a ~major
auditing error~.

    Even if the C/S omits "Fly a rud" or "Fly ruds" this does not
justify the auditor from auditing the pc over out rudiments.

                AUDITOR RIGHTS 539

    The auditor can do one of two things: He can fly all rudiments or
can return the folder and request rudiments be flown.

    The ~Dianetic auditor~ is not excused from auditing over out
rudiments. He should learn to fly rudiments.

    When a pc has not had a session for some time, or when a pc gets
sessions days apart, RUDIMENTS MUST BE FLOWN. Otherwise the pc will get
audited over out-rudiments. This can develop mental mass.

    Optimum session scheduling is a series of sessions or a whole
program done in a block of sessions close together. This prevents the
world from throwing the pc's rudiments out between sessions.

    Giving sessions far apart barely keeps up with life. The auditing
time is absorbed in patching life up.

    Rapid gain gets above life's annoyances and keeps the pc there.

    When an item the auditor has been told to run doesn't read on the
meter, even when the auditor puts in suppress and invalidate on it, the
auditor MUST NOT do anything with the item no matter what the C/S said.

    It is expected he will see if it reads and use suppress and
invalidate on it. And if it still doesn't read he will be expected NOT
to run it.

    When the auditor sees the TA is high at session start yet the C/S
says to "Fly a rud" or run a chain, the AUDITOR MUST NOT TRY TO FLY A
RUD and he must not start on a chain.

    Trying to bring a TA down by running ARC breaks or rudiments is very
hard on a pc as ARC breaks aren't the reason TAs go up.

    Seeing a high TA at start the Dianetic auditor does ~not~ start the
session but sends the folder back to the C/S. (Dianetic handling of high
TAs is covered in the section "R3R Procedure.")

    A folder summary inside the front cover must exist and must be kept
up.

    Over it there must be a program on which the case is being audited.
But just because it's covered, never

                540 BOOK THREE

neglect entering a session and what was run on the folder summary (FS).

    Don't let major rundowns be done twice.

    ~Dianetic items~ must ~never~ be run twice. Dianetic lists must not
be scattered through a folder. Bring them together and keep them
together and being brought forward.

    Don't copy Dianetic lists or worksheets from notes or items from
lists.

    Keep all admin neat and in the original form.

    Copying makes errors possible.

    When the rudiments go out during the session the auditor recognizes
the following:

    Pc critical = Withhold from auditor
    Pc antagonistic = By-passed charge (BPC) in session
    No TA = Problem
    Tired = Failed purpose or no sleep
    Sad = ARC break
    Soaring TA = Overrun or protest
    Dope off = By-passed F/N or not enough sleep
    No interest = Out rudiments or no interest in the first place.

    An auditor who isn't sure what it is but runs into trouble with the
pc is smart to end off the session quickly, write down the full
observation and get it to the C/S.

    The auditor has no business trying to do the C/S given when it
collides with and isn't designed to handle any of the above.

    An auditor should ~never~ begin a major action on a case that is not
"set up" for it.

    As this can occur during a session it is vital to understand the
rule and follow it. Otherwise a case can be bogged right down and will
be hard to salvage as now a new action to repair has been added to an
unrepaired action. Now, if the auditor starts a major action on a case
not "set up" we get ~two~ things to repair where we only had one, as the
major action won't work either.

    ~Repair~ = patching up past auditing or recent life errors. This is
done by prepared lists or completing the chain.

    ~Rudiments~ = setting the case up for the session action. This
includes ARC breaks, PTPs, W/Hs.

                AUDITOR RIGHTS 541

    ~Set up~ = getting an F/N showing and VGIs before starting any major
action. It means just that--an F/N and VGIs before starting ~any~ major
action. Such may require a repair action and rudiments as well.

    ~Major action~ = any--but any--action designed to change a case or
general considerations or handle continual illness or improve ability.
This means a ~process~ or even a series of processes like three flows.
It doesn't mean a grade. It is any process the case hasn't had.

    ~Grade~ = a series of processes culminating in an exact ability
attained, examined and attested to by the pc.

    ~Program~ = any series of actions designed by a C/S to bring about
definite results in a pc. A program usually includes several sessions.

    The vast bulk of auditing errors come about because C/Ses and
auditors seek to use a major action to repair a case.

    It is a responsibility of an auditor to reject a C/S which seeks to
use one or more major actions to repair a case that isn't running well.

    The auditor must understand this completely. He can be made to
accept a wrong C/S for the pc and even more importantly can in his own
session make the error and mess up the case.

    Example: Pc has not been running well (no real TA or had a grumpy
exam report). Auditor sees C/S has ordered a major action, not a repair
by prepared lists, rudiments, etc. The auditor must reject the C/S as he
will be made to fail in session by it.

    It is fatal to begin any new process on the case designed to change
the case if the case is not F/N VGIs.

    The ~only~ exceptions are a touch assist or rudiments or the
Dianetic assist all on a temporarily sick pc. But that's repair isn't
it?

    When an auditor receives a C/S and sees that it violates the pc's
program he should reject it.

    The pc, let us say, is supposed to finish his Dianetic triples but
is suddenly being given a student rescue intensive. That violates the
program and also the grade.

                542 BOOK THREE

    If the pc is running badly, a repair should be ordered. If not, the
program should be completed.

    Example: An effort is being made to get the pc to go backtrack. This
is a program containing several major actions which probably consists of
several sessions. Before this program is complete and before the pc has
gone backtrack, the C/S orders "1. Fly a rud, 2. Student Rescue
Intensive." The auditor should recognize in the Student Rescue Intensive
a major action being run into the middle of a program and reject it. The
correct action is of course the next backtrack process.

    Now and then before the full major action is complete the pc will
attain the ability of the grade or the end phenomena of the action.

    The auditor should recognize it and with the F/N and VGIs always
present at such moments, end off.

    The ability itself gets invalidated by pushing on.

    On the other hand this should never be taken as an excuse. "I think
he cogged to himself so we ended off." It must be a real "What do you
know!" sort of out loud cognition with a ~big~ F/N and VVGIs and
directly on the subject to end off a major action or a program or a
grade before its actions are all audited.

    The vilest trick that can be played on a preclear is for an auditor
to falsify an auditing report.

    It may be thought to be "good public relations" (good PR) for the
auditor with the C/S.

    Actually it buries an error and puts the preclear at risk.

    ~Integrity~ is a hallmark of Dianetics and Scientology.

    Just because psychiatrists were dishonest is no reason for auditors
to be.

    The results are there to be gotten.

    False reports like false attests recoil and badly on both the
auditor and the preclear.

    When an auditor finds himself being nattery or critical of his
preclears he should get his withholds on preclears pulled and overts on
them off.

    An auditor who goes sad is auditing over his own ARC break.

                AUDITOR RIGHTS 543

    An auditor worried about his preclear is working over a problem.

    Getting one's rudiments in on preclears or case supervisors or the
organization one works for, can bring new zest to life.

    In the chair no auditor has a case.

    If breath shows on a mirror held to his face he can audit.

    Faint afterwards if you must but see that the preclear gets to the
examiner with his F/N.

    ~Then~ get yourself handled.

    An auditor has a right to know what he did wrong in the session that
went wrong.

    Most often a sour session occurs only when the rules and data in
this chapter have been violated.

    But an auditor's TRs can go out.

    After a session that went wrong somebody else (not the auditor)
should ask the preclear what the auditor did. This sometimes spots a
false auditing report. But it also sometimes is a false report by the
preclear.

    In any event, the auditor has a right to know. Then he can either
correct his auditing or his knowhow or he can advise the C/S the
preclear's report is untrue and better repair can be done on the
preclear.

    Savage action against an auditor is almost never called for. He was
trying to help. Some people are hard to help.

    Not only does an auditor have the right to be told what was wrong
but he must be given the exact materials, date and title, that he
violated.

    Never take a verbal or written correction that is not in written or
taped materials.

    Don't be party to a "hidden data line" that doesn't exist.

    "You ruined the pc!" is not a valid statement. "You violated
chapter__, page__" is the charge.

    No auditor may be disciplined for asking "May I please have the tape
or technical bulletin that was violated so I can read it or go to
cramming."

    If it isn't in tapes, books or technical bulletins IT IS NOT TRUE
and no auditor has to accept any criticism that is not based on the
actual source data.

                544 BOOK THREE

    "If it isn't written it isn't true" is the best defense and the best
way to improve your technology.

    It is the established right of an auditor to use the exact
correction list to repair a specific auditing action, when required.

    An auditor does not have to obtain case supervisor okay to do a
correction list for a specific auditing action, so long as the auditor
knows how to audit that specific correction list.

    An auditor is expected to take a preclear who has red tagged (no F/N
at the Examiner after a session) back into session immediately and
handle with the right correction list for that process or rundown.

    The first responsibility of an auditor is his preclear and getting
that preclear through, by application of flubless technology.

    These are the rights of the auditor with relation to a case
supervisor. They are all technical rights based on sound principles.

    An auditor should know them and use them.

    Auditing is a happy business--when it is done right.


                CHAPTER 9

                THE IVORY TOWER

    Who or what is a "C/S"?

    The C/S is the CASE SUPERVISOR.

    He has to be (a) an accomplished and properly certified
auditor and (b) a person trained additionally to supervise
cases.

    The C/S is the auditor's "handler." He tells the auditor what to do,
corrects his tech, keeps the lines straight and keeps the auditor calm
and willing and winning.

    The C/S is the pc's case director. His actions are done ~for the
pc~.

    What he is actually accomplishing can be listed:

    1. The C/S is keeping Dianetics and Scientology working in the hands
of auditors for the benefit of pcs.

    2. The C/S is keeping the correct sequence of programs and processes
being used on the pc.

    3. The C/S is keeping the technical ~flow lines~ straight and in
proper sequence of actions.

    4. The C/S has the repute of Dianetics and Scientology in his area
fully in his hands.

                546 BOOK THREE

    The C/S must earn the confidence of his auditors by knowing what he
is doing and getting results via the auditors.

    The skill of an auditor can be enormously improved by a good C/S.
And reversely, under an incompetent C/S the skill and enthusiasm of an
auditor can be badly deteriorated. A C/S who fails to see errors the
auditor knows were there is soon regarded as incompetent.

    A C/S is in effect a technical leader. His skill, attitude and
demands bring about the state of technology in the area. His attitude
toward session length, the exactness required, the state of case
preparation he requires, when he will let a pc go, what he demands of
his auditors all add up to the general technical attitude in an area. If
this is good the area will be a good, respected one.

    The pc (or pre-OT) ~is~ the real reason the C/S is there.

    All C/Sing as to programming and what to run then is ~for the pc~.

    It is not for the auditor except as it influences the auditor's
willingness and attitude and skill.

    The product the C/S is after is the pc's (or pre-OT's) case gain.

    This is accomplished by applying the usual, by preventing errors and
keeps pcs in session and winning. Correctly applied technology works.
The C/S has to know this.

    The C/S is there to efficiently and effectively order the right
action based on a survey of the case and then see that it is done.

    The end product is a winning pc and an expansion of Dianetics and
Scientology.


¤The Ivory Tower¤


    The Case Supervisor is most successful when he supervises in
seclusion.

    This is called the ~Ivory Tower~ rule.

    The fantastic results I achieve as a C/S mainly stem from not
permitting what I know of technology and cases to be clouded by "human
emotion and reaction," by others.

                THE IVORY TOWER 547

    Part of a C/S's duty is to get the case through it despite auditor
opinions and flubs or the opinions of others.

    A C/S has no political or personal opinions. He can of course have
his own opinions of the pc's case. But he is the ~friend~ of the pc even
when being harsh.

    Often the C/S, unseen by the pc, is sometimes never suspected but
quite often adored by those for whom he C/Ses. One often sees this in
success stories, "Thank you, thank you to my great auditor (name) and
the C/S (name) and Ron." Sometimes it's only the auditor. But most pcs
know the C/S is there.

    This awareness is also a great trust and it is a trust that is
earned by great results and is never betrayed.

    To the majority of pcs, then, it is a trio--always in the same
order--his auditor, his C/S and myself.

    He trusts us. And we do our best for him.

    We don't change our actions, then, if he is a dope addict, a wife
beater, a criminal, a degraded being or an upstat (one who has high
statistics) and a sterling person.

    When we are researching, C/Sing or auditing, we do our best for him.

    We have nothing to do with whether his seniors like him or for that
matter whether ~we~ like him.

    It is our job. We hold it in trust.

    In our hands is his future, his sanity, his immortality.

    It depends on us whether he survives and lives a full life or
whether he goes into limbo.

    If we do our duty, when we know and do our jobs, he achieves
everything. When we don't, he is gone.

    No priest or fancied idol has even been endowed with more cause over
the beingness of another than a C/S and his auditor. This isn't my
opinion or my feeling about it. It's the way pcs look at it.

    Actually one can't really state the full actuality of it.

    The pc is justified in trusting us when we keep up-to-date on our
tech, know our job, take every care that a good job is done and do our
duty.

    Some auditors develop overts and withholds on a pc and color their
auditing reports with critical remarks about a pc. This equals more
withholds.

                548 BOOK THREE

    A C/S who pays much attention to these ~opinions~ is foolish. When
they get too bad on too many pcs, get the auditor's overts and withholds
pulled as he'll begin to flub.

    The worksheet and what the pc said or did is important. The opinions
aren't.

    A lot of "dog cases" are just unsolved cases that can be solved.
Some are very difficult, true, but the difficulty is finding the bug.
Some pcs are rather wild in conduct. But they solve too.

    So an auditor's ~opinion~ is not a study of the case. Talking to an
auditor about a case he is auditing is ~not~ of any technical value to a
C/S.

    Again, a case does not know what is wrong with it or it would as-is
and wouldn't be wrong. So talking to a case about his case is a waste of
time for a C/S. Some write huge notes to the C/S. The only value in all
this is to analyze whether it's a hidden standard* or an ARC break or a
W/H or a PTS matter. ~Technical~ considerations are all that matter, in
looking over such.

    ~Executive~ opinion is the world's worst source of data on a pc. No
C/S should ever take what seniors say about a junior. It's all human
emotion and reaction. It's not technology.

    ~Family~, husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters,
aunts and uncles are of little value to listen to about a case. The most
they could give you would be a list of accidents or illness or time in a
home. But beware, they may be worse off than the pc.

    No. The C/S is the pc's safest friend.

    The pc trusts the C/S and the auditor. Or he wouldn't sit still at
all.

    Sometimes he only trusts me. And that's the time I have to trust
you.

    And I do.


¤What the C/S is Doing¤


    In ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~, considerable
stress is placed on the words and phrases in engrams. This is still
functional. However as I did further

                THE IVORY TOWER 549

research I found that (a) many pcs were unable to get the words in the
engram and (b) the apparent force of the words was derived wholly from
the pain, emotion, and effort contained in the engram. In Standard
Dianetics the words in an engram play no major role in the auditing.

    The use of the words to deaberrate and concentration on phrases in
engrams is valid but ~junior~ in force to the pain, misemotion, etc., in
the engram. Thus if you run out the ~force~ the words drop into
insignificance. This is often how the pc gets cognitions: the words and
meaning concealed in the engram are changing value and devaluating. The
pc can then think clearly again on a subject previously pinned down by
the ~force~. Get the ~force~ out and the words take care of themselves
and need no special handling.

    The ~meaning~ of things plays a secondary role in processing to
forces.

    Thetans find counter-forces objectionable. Almost all chronic
(continual) somatics have their root in force of one kind or another.

    In that the handling of things with bodies involves force to greater
or lesser degree, incapability and derangement of mental values is
proportional to the thetan's objection to force.

    This objection descends down to a wish to stop things. It goes below
that into overwhelmedness in which propitiation and obsessive agreement
manifest themselves.

    The low TA is a symptom of an overwhelmed being.

    When a pc's TA goes low he is being overwhelmed by too heavy a
process, too steep a gradient in applying processes or by rough TRs or
invalidative auditing or auditing errors.

    A low TA means that the thetan has gone past a desire to stop things
and is likely to behave in life as though unable to resist real or
imaginary forces.

    Chronically high TAs mean the person can still stop things and is
trying to do so.

    However, all one has to do is restimulate and leave unflat an engram
chain to have a high TA. High TA is reflecting the force contained in
the chain.

                550 BOOK THREE

    An "overrun" means doing something too long that has engrams
connected with it which means an engram chain with too many engrams on
it being restimulated by life or auditing. Hence overrun.

    If this overrun persisted unhandled eventually the pc would be
overwhelmed and one, in theory, would have a low TA.

    Mental masses, forces, energy are the items being handled by the C/S
on any pc.

    If the C/S loses sight of this he can wander off the road and go
into the thickets of significance.

    Engrams, secondaries, locks all add up to mental masses, forces,
energies, time which express themselves in countless different ways such
as pain, misemotion, feelings, old perceptions and a billion billion
thought combinations buried in the masses of significance.

    A thetan can postulate or say or reason anything. Thus there is an
infinity of significances.

    A thetan is natively capable of logical thought. This becomes
muddied by outpoints* held in by mental forces such as pictures of heavy
experiences.

    As the masses and forces accumulated and copied from living build
up, the logic potential becomes reduced and illogical results occur.

    The ~pc~ is continually searching for the ~significance~ of a mass
or force--what it is, why is it.

    The C/S is easily led astray by this.

    All forces in the bank contain significances.

    All forces can be unburdened and lightened up by the various
procedures of auditing.

    The search of the pc is for significance.

    The action of the C/S is reduction of forces.

    The E-meter records what force is being discharged in every slash,
fall and blowdown. The amount of TA per session is the C/S's index of
gain.

    Note that a discharged process no longer gives TA and case gain.

    The amount of significance recovered or realized by the pc only
shows up as cognitions.

                THE IVORY TOWER 551

    As the TA works off the case, then one has two indicators:

    1. There is needle and TA action.

    2. The pc cognites.

    One shows that force is coming off. Two shows that thought is
releasing from force.

    If a C/S processes toward significance only he will get cases that
do not progress.

    The needle action detects not so much significance as where the
force is.

    Diving toward significance the C/S winds up shortening grades,
looking for "magic one-shot buttons" and overwhelming cases by shooting
them on up the grades while levels remain ~loaded~ with force.

    When a pc gets no more TA action on Level One he will have made
Level One and will ~know~ it. He will therefore attest to "no problems."

    The reliable indicators are TA action and cognitions while a level
is still charged.

    Diminished TA action and cognitions means the purpose of the level
has been reached.

    A feeling of freedom and expansion on a subject is expressed in a
normal TA and a loose needle.

    The pc will now attest to an ability regained.

    To process only to F/N and even chop off the cognitions on a process
abuses the indicator of the F/N.

    You can find many pcs who bitterly resent F/N indications. They have
been:

    A. Not run on all processes of a level

    B. Still have force on the subject

    C. Were chopped off before they could cognite.

    The ARC break in this is ~unfinished cycle of action~.

    The proper end phenomena for a process is F/N, cognition, VGIs. Now
look at that carefully. That is the proper end phenomena of a ~process~.
It is not the end phenomena of a ~level~ or even of a ~type~ of process.

    It is not enough for the pc to have only negative gains of deleting
force. Sooner or later he will have to begin to confront force.

                552 BOOK THREE

    This comes along naturally and is sometimes aided by processes
directly aimed at further confront. "What problem ~could~ you have?"
sooner or later is needed in one form or another.

    What force can the pc now handle?

    All auditing in a body--and any living in a body--makes a being
vulnerable. Bodies break, suffer, intensify pain.

    Sooner or later a pc will go exterior. The Interiorization Rundown
must be ordered as the next action or you will have a pc with a high TA.

    After this the pc is less subject to the body and his ability to
confront force will improve.

    Do not be too worried or surprised if after this the pc has some
minor accident with the body. Exterior he forgets its frailty. However,
such things are minor. He is "learning how to walk" a new way and ~will~
run into chairs! He gets this figured out after a while.

    Pcs sometimes improve their ability to handle force while interior
so as to have mysterious headaches or new body pressures. Inevitably
they ~have~ been ~exterior~ and need interiorization run. They were just
using too much force while still inside!

    Thus force is the thing, significances very secondary.

    Force, of course, is made up of time, matter, energy, flows,
particles, masses, solids, liquids, gases, space and locations.

    The pc tends to dive for the ~thought~ imbedded in the force. He
will tell you he's being processed to find out who his parents were or
why he is sterile or who did him in, etc. The C/S who chases after this
is a deerhound illegally chasing mice!

    The C/S is there to make certain that the pc makes gains and attains
the actual abilities of the level.

    ~The C/S is for the pc~.

    C/S auditor control exists only to keep the auditing standard, the
TRs good, the processes ordered done and to end phenomena each one.

    No other reasons for C/Sing exist.

                THE IVORY TOWER 553


¤The Supreme Test¤


    ~The supreme test of a thetan is his ability to make things go
right~.

    This of course is a rather savage and brutal datum for it thrusts
aside all justification, reasonableness, excuses and even does not take
into account the size or obstacles of the opposition.

    But please note that the datum is not "are things all right around
him" as this is a passive test and could mean only that he was simply
sitting still.

    Whether things are ~currently~ all right or not is beside the point.
The thetan who is making things go right may be tackling a mountain of
confusion and of course things are ~not~ all right because what he is
attacking is mainly wrong. It is whether or not he is ~making~ things go
right in spite of "hell or high water" that is the test.

    Many beings live lives of quiet correctness without even once making
anything do anything. Things around them just happen to be orderly. The
social system props them up. But someday--bang--the society gets into a
turmoil which knocks out the props. ~Then~ we see that there were too
few present who could ~make~ things go right and that is the end of the
society. Thus died all old civilizations. Their people lived in a system
correctness and things went right only so long as nothing was going
wrong. Then one day things go wrong. These sophisticated but weak beings
never were able to ~make~ things go right and so the whole society
collapses.

    One might also ask, "What is meant by right?"

    This would be forwarding a purpose not destructive to the majority
of the dynamics.

    Aberration is by definition "a crooked line." It is from the Latin
~aberratio~, "a wandering from" and from the Latin ~errare~, "to wander"
or "to ~err~."

    A sane person thinks, looks and sees in straight lines. Black is
black, white is white. The aberrated person looks toward black and
wanders off in his gaze to something else and makes the error of saying
it is "grey."

                554 BOOK THREE

    You can consider aberration in a passive way (supinely, of no force
or action). A person is sane or not sane. He thinks straight or
crookedly.

    Now consider aberration in a forceful way. A person ~looks~, then an
opposing force to him pushes aside his gaze or distracts it. But the
really sane, forceful person looks right on through and past the
opposition and sees what is there anyway.

    Let us take real action. Mr. Q rolls a ball from A towards B.
Enroute Opposition X pushes the ball aside toward C. Mr. Q then shoves
the ball toward C and says the reason he did not arrive properly at B
was because . . .

    Mr. S rolls a ball from A toward B. Opposition X diverts the ball
toward C. Mr. S pulls the ball back into line and despite, over and
through Opposition X arrives at B anyway.

    You can see that Mr. Q in the first example is willing to be
aberrated or pushed aside or at least does not contest it enough. Mr. Q
is aberrated.

    Mr. S on the other hand was not willing to be diverted and went
right on to B. Mr. S is not aberrated.

    Now society, being mainly suppressive, observes that Mr. Q never has
much commotion around him. True, he never arrives and gets nothing done,
but he isn't noisy so he is "okay."

    Mr. S on the other hand makes an awful row and bashes Opposition X
on the head and snarls his way onward toward B. Society says he is a bad
fellow because he has fusses. Of course he also gets something done. But
in a decadent society men are measured by how ~pleasant~ they are, not
how effective they are, so Mr. S is regarded as a bit "mad." ~Yet~ when
trouble comes it is only the Mr. ~S~'s who will save the day while the
Mr. ~Q~'s all give up and die.

    There is another point here, however. That is ~purpose~. The
difference between one thetan's forward thrust and another's is
~purpose~, validity of.

    A madman can also go from A ~toward~ B relentlessly where B is a
totally undesirable and destructive point. But in actual practice, real
madmen never really arrive at the B

                THE IVORY TOWER 555

they wanted to arrive at. A madman only goes ~toward~ but never really
arrives. So he only makes everything go ~wrong~.

    B must be a desirable point not destructive to a majority of the
dynamics for rightness to occur.

    So there is the savage and bare datum:

    THE SUPREME TEST OF A THETAN IS THE ABILITY
TO MAKE THINGS GO RIGHT.

    People who explain how wrong it is all going and who have reasons
why and ~who aren't putting it right~ are the real crazy people in the
universe. The only ones crazier than they are are the ones who are quite
happy to have everything fail and go wrong with no protest from them.
And the only ones even worse are those who work endlessly to make things
go wrong and prevent anything from going right and oppose all efforts
instinctively.

    Fortunately there are a few around who ~do~ make things go right in
spite of everything and anyone.


¤The Supreme Test of a C/S¤


    A C/S or auditor who knows his technology is able to hold the line
on any given action in auditing or C/Sing and not mix up.

    One C/Ses Dianetics purely.

    One C/Ses or audits a rundown as itself, not as a botch of several
actions run into it.

    So this brings to view that some can run the process or program from
A to B.

    And some, worse luck,

    a. Go from A to G to Q to A and wonder why they don't arrive at the
B of result.

    b. Some go from A to B all right but when at B go right on past it.

    Both, actually, are a type of non-confront. The A-G-Q-A can't
confront and disperses off arriving at B. The A beyond B hasn't
confronted B and so doesn't recognize B.

    The ability to confront the pc and the session and parts of the
session permit one to accurately go from A to B.

    Proving this, perception reduces in ratio to overts. Accept that
fact as it's true. If you run O/W on an auditor

                556 BOOK THREE

regarding the pc he is to audit, the auditor will give a perfect session
to that pc. Why? He can confront because he can see.

    Programming is simply an A to B action. The road is all laid out.

    Auditing a process is a simple A to B action.

    What if you had an auditor who halfway through Level Zero with no
completion found a picture, did Dianetics on it, didn't flatten the R3R
because the pc cogged it was like his mother and the auditor did O/W on
mother in the middle of the engram!

    The pc would be a mess! B was run away from.

    Same way with programming that isn't handled.

    What if you had an auditor who got an F/N, cog, VGIs and continued
the same process to TA 5.6? He got to B and kept right on going.

    Same way with programs.

    So really the supreme test of an auditor or C/S is to begin at the A
and arrive at the B in any process or program.

    You should look into some folders where the C/S or auditor dispersed
off B or where B was reached with no halt.

    The most recent examples I've seen have been taking processes out of
one rundown and using them in another rundown all in an effort to
achieve a maximum effect when the error that was present came from
failure to complete two earlier programs.

    The correct action would have been to complete the earliest program
left incomplete and then complete the next incomplete program, not
scramble parts of two ~new~ programs.

    A to B is a cycle of action. A clean one.

    It is best to keep it so.

    The supreme test of an auditor to a C/S is to make auditing go
right--by the book.


¤The Three Golden Rules of the C/S¤


    There are three firm rules in handling auditors which makes the
difference between good auditors and poor auditors or even having
auditors or no auditors at all.

                THE IVORY TOWER 557

    ~1. Never fail to find and point out an actual goof and send the
auditor to cramming~.

    ~2. Never invalidate or harass an auditor for a correct action or
when no technical goof has occurred~.

    ~3. Always recognize and acknowledge a technically perfect session~.

    By reversing these three things a C/S can wreck and blow every
auditor in the place.

    By ~always~ doing these three things correctly the C/S winds up with
splendid auditors.

    An auditor who knows he goofed and yet gets a well done doesn't
think the C/S is a good fellow. He holds the C/S in contempt and his
auditing worsens.

    An auditor who didn't goof and yet is told he did becomes bitter or
hopeless and begins to hate the C/S.

    The test of a C/S in the auditor's eyes is "Is he spot on?" meaning
is the C/S ~accurate~ in giving the right program, the right C/S,
spotting the goof and ordering cramming, and being well enough trained
to see and commend a well done session.

    You never get bad indicators in an auditor or student when you state
the truth.

    You only get bad indicators when your statement is not true.

    "PR" (public relations' cheery falsehoods) has nothing to do with
getting good indicators.

    Good indicators in auditors are made with ~truth~.

    "You goofed, go to Cramming, do TRs 101 to 104 until you cease to
alter commands."

    "Well done by Exams. Practice handwriting so I don't take so long
reading your worksheets."

    "This F/N VGIs at session end and the bad exam report do not agree.
Is there any way this report was falsified? Is there any goof you didn't
write down?"

    or

    "Very well done" on a very well done totally ~on~ tech, ~on~ admin
and correct auditor's C/S session.

    Auditors work well even for a bad tempered C/S ~when~ that C/S is
always "spot on" with program, C/S, auditor's grade or censure of
auditor and cramming.

                558 BOOK THREE

    Auditors like a businesslike, accurate C/S.

    A "good fellow" C/S who "lets it slide" and says nothing becomes a
very bad fellow indeed in auditors' eyes.

    A C/S who doesn't recognize and who invalidates good auditing is
looked on as a suppressive even when it's just ignorance.

    Only those C/Ses who follow the golden rules are truly loved by
their auditors.


¤A Case Supervisor Has the Duty:¤


    to refuse to discuss a case with either the auditor or the pc.

    to refrain from discussing or mentioning data from pc folders
socially.

    to correct his auditor's application of tech positively, without
invalidation.

    to order the auditor to cramming or retraining for any flunked
session.

    to maintain a standard of professional conduct.

    to C/S all folders delivered to him daily.


¤A Case Supervisor Has the Right:¤


    to have his own office.

    to hold no other post.

    never to rush his own C/S actions.

    to accept no technical orders or advices other than from me.

    to demand a high administrative standard of those who work on his
lines.

    to demand that pcs do not discuss their own cases or otherwise
violate pc rules.

    to issue and get compliance on any orders necessary to the
performance of his duty and technical results.


¤The Code of a C/S¤


    This is the Code of a C/S as regards his auditors and their pcs for
whom he is C/Sing.

                THE IVORY TOWER 559

    1. I promise to know my Dianetics and Scientology totally cold up to
the level at which I am C/Sing.

    2. I promise never to look for some imagined error in technical data
but always to look for and find the real error in the auditing
programming or C/Sing.

    3. I promise never to treat a case as "different."

    4. I promise that if I cannot find the reason why a session has
failed from the folder that I will suspect a false auditing report and
get the pc asked about the session and get data as to why it failed.

    5. I promise never to punish an auditor for querying a C/S.

    6. I promise to refrain from discussing or mentioning data from pc
folders socially.

    7. I promise to correct my auditors' application of technology
positively without invalidation.

    8. I promise that I will order the auditor to cramming or retraining
for any flunked session.

    9. I promise never to order an unnecessary repair.

    10. I promise never to use repair processes to get case gain when
the pc needs the next grade.

    11. I promise never to give verbal C/S instructions but always to
write them down.

    12. I promise never to talk to the auditor about the case.

    13. I promise never to talk to a pc about his case.

    14. I promise to send the pc to the Examiner to get data if unsure
why the folder has been sent up for C/S.

    15. I promise never to be "reasonable" as a C/S.

    16. I promise to maintain sufficient ethics presence to get my
orders followed.

    17. I promise never to issue involved repair orders.

    18. I promise never to follow C/S advice from a pc but I will accept
the pc's data.

    19. I promise that I will ~always~ read through the pc folder before
C/Sing a case.

    20. I promise I will always have the folders of cases in trouble
casewise, ethically or medically reviewed to find the out technology.

    21. I promise never to put a pc on a grade to "solve his case."

                560 BOOK THREE

    22. I promise to always order a repair of a misaudited grade until
the end phenomena has been achieved.

    23. I promise to advance the pc up the gradation chart in the proper
sequence.

    24. I promise never to order a grade run that the pc is not set up
for.

    25. I promise never to indulge in the practice of "hopeful C/Sing."

    26. I promise never to C/S a session I cannot read but will instead
return it to the auditor for clarification.

    27. I promise to make every effort to find and point out an actual
goof and send the auditor to cramming.

    28. I promise never to invalidate or harass an auditor for a correct
action or when no technical goof has occurred.

    29. I promise to recognize and acknowledge a technically perfect
session.

    30. I promise to see that a pc or pre-OT who knows he has made an EP
is sent to Exams and C & A to attest.

    31. I promise never to send a pc or pre-OT who hasn't made it to
declare and attest.

    32. I promise to see that pcs and pre-OTs who haven't made it are
handled until they have made that specific declare.

    33. I promise to complete cycles of action on the pc and never start
a new one while an old one is still incomplete.

    34. I promise to ensure that the auditors for whom I am C/Sing
continue to improve in skill and training level.

    35. I promise to maintain a standard of the highest professional
conduct.


¤The "Art" of Case Supervision¤


    One does not in actual fact case supervise against results.

    Case supervision is done against the thoroughness and exactness of
technical application.

    To give an auditor a well done when he has made a technical flub
(despite a good result on the pc) is to hang the auditor with a win. The
next time he does the same thing he is liable to get a resounding lose.

                THE IVORY TOWER 561

    In looking over folders one C/Ses against standardness of
application. The technology takes care of the rest.

    For a long time, auditing was "what you could get away with." It no
longer is. It is the act of holding a standard. Only in that way does
one get 100% wins.

    In assigning what is to be done with a pc or pre-OT, one seeks to
keep the case progressing or winning.

    The case supervisor's action is to get the case audited as long as
possible! Any impulse to get the case off one's lines will be a losing
one.

    Cases progress in exact ratio to the amount of charge gotten off.
They do not progress by magic buttons designed just for that case.

    The "sudden" big wins are the result of the accumulated effect of
getting charge off.

    It is of course charge of a certain type in the mechanics of
Dianetics and Scientology.

    Early on (using Standard Tech) the ~worse~ off (more shallow) the
case is, the ~faster~ it F/Ns. The pc is reaching no depth. An example
is someone who cannot get into or run past lives. They F/N almost at
once on any process. This does not mean they are at once "clear" or
released. It means they are like a coiled spring. When you touch them
something flies off.

    The case supervisor on such a case works hard to keep them running
Dianetics. The task is finding something to audit, not to complete pcs.

    When the Dianetics grade was missed, people F/Ned their way straight
on up to OT VI, still wondering where their headache came from.

    This doesn't mean that in Scientology you by-pass F/Ns. It means the
case supervisor prepares the case.

    Therefore the case supervisor is alert to the inability or ability
of a pc or pre-OT to go backtrack, to the number of engrams the pc runs
per chain before erasure, to the number of commands given before F/N on
a Scientology process. And by this he can gauge how arduously the case
must be worked on.

    For example, on a child, a bruised finger yesterday run as an engram
F/Ns.

                562 BOOK THREE

    But if you keep at it and at it and at it, gradually, gradually the
case runs deeper and deeper into the past and confronts heavier and
heavier incidents.

    Then, as it goes along, the case runs faster and faster, requiring
far more "commands per unit of time in session."

    Finally the case begins to blow by inspection, and becomes a
Dianetic Case Completion.*

    Scientology, dealing with the thetan and considerations, is now able
to function with total bite.

    That is the general Case Supervisor plan.

    Solve it ~standardly~.

    Applying the right C/S direction at the right time is only knowing
one's technology.

    This is the basic rationale behind C/Sing. It really has no strain.
Only poor auditing can mess it up so you police that hard, do the right
direction at the right time and let technology do the rest.


¤Dianetic Case Supervision¤


    Dianetics is done differently than Scientology in that its auditors
are trained on Dianetics only. Therefore they do not have various skills
you will find in a Scientology auditor. Even when they become a
Scientology auditor, Dianetics is still done as Dianetics.

    Knowledge and skill above and beyond the training received on
Dianetics is not to be expected.

    We use Dianetics.

    We do demand some skill with a meter and what a floating needle is.

    If a Dianetic pc gets in trouble we send him to the Qualifications
Division for a review. In this review, all Scientology skills (but no
grades) can be done.

    It is very worthy of note that in reviewing Dianetics or in doing
Dianetics auditing ~one can run out bad sessions as an auditor or pc by
using R3R on auditing sessions or therapy~.

    If we keep Dianetics to Dianetics we will achieve the miracles of
which it is capable.

                THE IVORY TOWER 563

    Dianetics has been refined greatly. But it is all there. There is no
hidden data line.

    It is far less complex today than it was in 1953, for instance, and
much more effective. But it is still Dianetics. It is a technology that
runs and erases locks, secondaries and engrams and their chains.

    It should be case supervised and done with that fully in mind.

    A Dianetic auditor is a Dianetic Auditor. He can do what he can do.

    And it's marvelous.


¤Chart of Human Evaluation¤


    ~Science of Survival~'s "Chart of Human Evaluation" is a study for
case supervisors and is of great use.

    When you find the pc on one of its columns you can see if the pc
stays there or falls back there.

    Standard Dianetics opened this chart to full use for C/Ses.
Twenty-four years of Scientology processes and know-how are to a large
degree evolved from this chart.

    ~If a pc is staying at a level of the chart or falls on it~ you know
he is running ~above~ his level.

    Processing changes conditions.

    If it doesn't improve them (or the pc's behavior) then the pc's
reality is not being reached. It can be plus or minus, above or below.
It is seldom that the pc's reality is higher than the processes used and
really only occurs when a grade honestly run is rerun. Then you get pc
protest as he's ~made~ that.

    Pcs who get sick suddenly are being run far too high on the "Class
Chart."* Pcs who don't change are also being run too high.

    Behavior, mannerisms are the index. ~Do these change?~ If they do
the pc is improving. If they drop lower on the "Human Evaluation Chart"
the pc is in overwhelm.

    ~Picking thoughts out of forces in the bank bring a no-change~.

    In other words you can park a pc by continuing nothing but think
processes which address only significance.

                564 BOOK THREE

    Self-auditing is the manifestation of being overwhelmed by masses,
etc., and pulling only think out of the bank. Pulling out think then
pulls ~in~ more force which gives more self-audit.

    Not all self-audit is bad. The pc eventually realizes its forces!
After a few tens of thousands of hours! If he knows all the answers.

    A good push against a wall is worth a hundred hours of
self-auditing. And it's force.

    This famous chart (in use by the way by an airline and several other
areas, and which had to be printed as desk blotters for personnel people
at one time) could easily be expanded in numbers of vertical columns to
include all behavior.

    The C/S is at a disadvantage as he doesn't see pcs. But he can
have a mannerism item filled in on a summary report.
"Mannerisms ________________." "Mannerism changes _________."

    This serves.

    It also serves to look at the psychosomatic column of the chart and
a pc's health form.

    The pc will change in ideas when he changes his relationship to
forces.

    Tons of processes do this.

    Objective processes have to be run in on a pc now and then.

    Somatics passing through in a session are a definite clue to force
change. The no-somatic pc is either high as an angel or being run too
high.

    You don't have to run directly at force for forces to change in the
pc.

    One two-way communication I did with a pc released his hold on a
huge bundle of forces!

    The body responds badly to forces.

    The conflict between protecting or using a body and being as a
thetan able to withstand large forces gets so mixed up in a pc he can
wind up as a force-shy thetan!

    Standard processes such as those in use for twenty-four years handle
this when fitted into their levels.

    What the C/S has to realize is that he is (a) producing an optimum
rate of change in the pc if he is C/Sing well and

                THE IVORY TOWER 565

(b) changing the pc's position upward on the "Chart of Human
Evaluation."


¤Programming of Cases¤


    Every action taken on a case by a ~case supervisor~ (or an auditor
doing his own C/S actions) should be part of a definite outlined
~program~ for that case.

    ~Program~ definition--A program is defined as the sequence of
actions session by session to be undertaken on a case by the C/S in his
directions to the auditor or auditors auditing the case.

    The master program for every case is given on the ~Classification
and Gradation Chart~ issued from time to time. The earliest of these
charts was 1965 followed by 1st December 1966 followed by 1st January
1968 followed by 1st December 1969. The reissues of the chart are done
to improve the communication of the data on the chart. The program
factor has not much changed since its earliest issue. Tapes about this
chart were made at its first issue and of course remain valid. From time
to time they are reissued but they remain standard and have been so
since the first issue of the chart.

    Omitting this gradient of processes not only stalls cases but
results in a case manifesting out-grade phenomena.

    A pc ~must~ attain the full ability noted on the chart before going
up to the next level of the chart.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preclear Grade       Name of State      Process
or State of Being                       Audited
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dianetic Case      Dianetic Case   Dianetic Secondaries
Completion         Completion      and Engrams,
                                   Secondaries Triple,
                                   Engrams Triple


------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject             Ability         Inability        Class of Auditor
Audited             Gained          Lost             Required
------------------------------------------------------------------------
All processes   A Well          Freedom from         HDC or HDG
of the level    and Happy       physical pain
and no less     Human Being     and emotion

                566 BOOK THREE

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Where Obtained            Training Required        Prerequisites
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hubbard Guidance        No training                No Prerequisites
Centres, Dianetic       required
Counseling Groups,      but HSDC
Mission auditors, or    recommended
as a student on an
HSDC, Academy or
Saint Hill Course


    Telling the pc he has made it is of course evaluation.

    Genius in C/Sing is normally required only when some former driver
wrecked the thing instead of driving it right in the first place.

    To case supervise one has to accept the following facts:

    1. Dianetics and Scientology work.

    2. The subjects are serious subjects not experimental toys.

    3. The basics and fundamentals are stated early in the period of
development and have not changed.

    4. The "newest and latest" is usually a recovery of basics and
better statement of them.

    5. The purpose of the subject has not altered and continues to be
the attainment of ability and freedom for the individual.

    6. That things which were true early in the subjects are still true.

    7. That the mind responds on a gradient of improvement not suddenly
like a bomb explosion.

    8. That the ~Classification and Gradation Chart~ and ~all~ its
processes and steps ~IS~ the basic program of ~any~ case.

    9. That all other programs are efforts to get the pc or pre-OT back
on the basic program.

    10. That there is no hidden data line and that the materials and
procedures are refined mainly to facilitate use and communication of
them.

    11. That auditing is for the pc, not the church or the auditor.

                THE IVORY TOWER 567

    12. That major processes are done to improve the case.

    13. That repair is undertaken to eradicate errors made in auditing
or the environment which impede the use of major processes.

    14. That a case has to be programmed by the C/S to get it advancing
as it should have been in the first place on the ~Classification and
Gradation Chart~.

    15. That a C/S is not being called upon to develop a new chart for
the case but only to get the case back on the basic chart and get it
done.

    There are then three types of programs:

    1. ~The~ program laid out in the ~Classification and Gradation
Chart~. (Called the basic program.)

    2. Repair programs to eradicate case mishandling by current life or
auditing errors. (Called a set-up program.)

    3. Major actions to be undertaken to get the case back on the Class
Chart from wherever he has erroneously gotten to on it. (Called a return
program.)

    It has been a very common C/S action to disperse away from a program
laid out. This has been happening ever since the first issue of the
Class Chart and has been a principal source of trouble for C/Ses.

    This happens in several ways:

    1. Not knowing the importance of the Class Chart.

    2. Not knowing basics.

    3. Falling for suppressive propaganda that "we don't use that now,"
"the material is old," "it's only background data," etc., that
deteriorates what one ~does~ know and could use.

    4. Failure of auditors to give good sessions and do the usual
required in a session.

    5. Abandonment of the C/S's own repair or return program--usually
because of false auditor reports or operating on insufficient data from
the pc.

    The correct way to go about all this is to:

    A. Repair the case thoroughly with minor actions like green forms,
prepared lists, rudiments, two-way communication.

                568 BOOK THREE

    B. Acquire adequate data on the pc.

    C. Complete any C/S return program begun.

    D. Get the pc back on the Class Chart without any processes of the
grade skipped.

    E. Run the case on the Class Chart.

    F. Repair any departures or errors made in life or auditing.

    G. Get the pc back on the Class Chart.

    Not following ~any~ program is a complete exercise in non-sequitur
(means one step does not follow the last but is different and
unrelated).

    In giving a pc process after process that are not related to each
other and follow no repair program or return program is non-sequitur in
the extreme.

    If processes were remarks one would get a sequence of processes
given the pc sounding like this: "The submarine just went by so we will
order a hundred tons of bread. There wasn't any beer so birds are seldom
seen. The dance was very fast so we fixed the carburetor. He has very
long hair so we decorated his father's tomb."

    "Give pc Scientology triples then do his Dianetics then fix up his
hidden standard," would be a series of crazy non-sequitur C/Ses. Nothing
is connected to or proceeds from anything. That would be a dispersed
program for sure.

    Such C/Sing has no cause and effect in it. A person totally ignorant
of basic cause and effect gets "Pc nattery. Run Dianetics." "Pc's case
not advancing. Do Grade Zero." The cause of the pc condition is not
understood. A nattery pc has withholds. A case not advancing has
problems. That's real actual basic tech. This data is over nineteen
years old. The reasons for the pc's behavior or trouble are not
mysterious reasons never revealed. They are all very well given in
Dianetic and Scientology materials.

    One can see from all this the ~necessity~ of working by program on a
case.

    Even when one starts an honest program for the case one can get
thrown off of it and begin to do something else.

    If the pc goes exterior, of course, one has to handle by
Interiorization Rundown before the case can be audited at all. But
that's no reason to then skip all the grades! A pc can

                THE IVORY TOWER 569

go exterior at any point. Thus it must be handled when it occurs. But
that does not mean anything happened to one's program or the Class
Chart. Exterior or interior, a pc unflat on Dianetics (not attained the
ability marked on the Class Chart) is unflat on Dianetics!

    And a pc who is unflat on Dianetics will have out lower grades.

    A C/S who gets wound up in this sort of skipped everything and made
nothing of course has an awful mess on his hands. He can feel as lost as
Hansel or Gretel. But waiting to get covered up by leaves is for the
birds.

    If one finds the pc off the road, the thing to do is return the pc
to the road at the point he didn't walk it ~and there are no shortcuts
for the mind~.

    The utter despair and insane barbarism psychiatry descended into was
patient lost, psychiatrist lost, patient crazy, psychiatrist into insane
sadism.

    So maybe the first lesson a C/S really has to learn is

    ~There is a known road out~.

    There is no shortcut, it has to be walked every inch of it.

    And therefore the greatest enemy of the C/S is the suppressive
person who says "that's all old," "we don't use that now," "that's just
background data" and thereby obscures the actual road.

    And another enemy is the pc who screaminly demands to be put up to
Clear at once so he won't have this awful headache!

    Thus the measures a C/S takes to hold a steady course will profit
him greatly in the end with good solid gains for the pc.

    A C/S who puts a Class Chart into every folder he handles is doing a
wise thing. Even if it's big, clumsy, hard to handle, it is at least
thorough.

    If on it he marks in red things the pc has gotten to falsely and if
in green things the pc made from the bottom walking an honest road, he
knows where he is at! Seeing the whole training cycle half of the chart
continue blank means that much more ignorance and trouble for the pc in
making his gains stable.

                570 BOOK THREE

    If the C/S put his repair program on a ~red~ sheet in the folder and
dated it out session by session to be audited until it was ~done~ and
all flubs made in doing it also marked in and repaired, the C/S wouldn't
lose his place in the book. For a red sheet stands out in amongst other
folder papers. A red sheet with a "folder error summary" on one side of
it and the C/S's repair program on the other keeps the pc's progress
located. When that red sheet is done it should be signed by the C/S as
~done~ which retires all errors to that point.

    A bright ~blue~ sheet giving the ~C/S return program~ properly dated
also gives one a chance to not get steered off. A new red repair program
sheet fixing up errors occurring in doing the blue sheet can be pushed
into the folder but the blue sheet can be resumed again.

    The blue sheet completed should find the pc back on the Class Chart.

    A list of processes run tallied up by the auditor each session keeps
the C/S from repeating a process and gives him the Dianetic items used
singly to be done triple.

    While all this admin may seem time-consuming, lack of it mounts up
into valuable ~auditor time~ being thrown away.

    Case supervising is a road. It has milestones. When the pc didn't
pass one honestly he got lost.

    There's no reason for pc, auditor and C/S to ~all~ get lost.

    The C/S has an exact road to hold to, return to and repairs to get
done so the pc can get moving on the return program and the Class Chart
which ~is~ the road.

    It took too many trillions to find this road for it to be neglected.
For if the C/S neglects it people won't arrive anywhere but lost as
well.

    The right idea is the road.


¤Starting Dianetics on Pcs Who
Have Had Scientology Auditing¤


    I have found that:

    ~One can make a considerable error by not starting a pc out on
Dianetics with a C/S 1 on the basis that the pc has already had lots of
Scientology auditing~.

                THE IVORY TOWER 571

    That a pc has had lots of Scientology auditing is no guarantee that
the pc understands such things as "erasure" or what a Dianetic session
or even what auditing is all about.

    The C/S 1 must be well done. If not you will have a pc not running
well because he didn't know the terms or what was expected in session.

    A C/S 1 can be done again if the pc doesn't do well.


¤The Difficult Case¤


    Handling the OT case can be very tricky. Anyone of these can give
the auditor trouble. But it is usually nothing much to handle unless the
OT is what we call a "false III." This is somebody who gaily went up the
grades without doing them. You don't have to know more about it than
that.

    Thus if a person who is OT is giving trouble geing audited on
Dianetics it's better to turn him or her over to a church or mission for
routine handling on Scientology.

    Any OT who has somatics is auditable on Dianetics which he should
have had in the first place as he was using Scientology grades to get
rid of his headache! Or some somatic.

    If the "OT" isn't auditable on Dianetics then he's a problem for
Scientology and not a very tough one either.

    To the Dianetic auditor this is not very complex.

    Audit the "OT" on Standard Dianetics. If it works okay just carry on
until he's rid of his somatics and turn him over to Scientology auditing
when he's okay.

    If it doesn't work, then cease Dianetics and turn him over to a
Scientology Qual Division who will get the thing straight by the usual
Class VIII remedies.

    That's all you have to know about OTs in Dianetics.


¤Dianetic Folders¤


    All a case supervisor looks for in Dianetics folders to advise the
next action is departures from exact Standard Dianetics procedure.

    It is a very easy job providing the case supervisor knows his
Standard Dianetics exactly and completely.

                572 BOOK THREE

    Any time there is the most minute or flagrant departure from exact
assessment or exact R3R, there will be a breakdown of the results.

    It is quite a tribute to the technology that this is true. And it is
true. Doing C/Sing on a very great many Dianetic cases audited by
relatively untrained auditors the following emerged in letters ten feet
high!

    1. Where the auditor followed the exact procedure without deviation,
the results were uniformly excellent.

    2. Where the auditor deviated from the exact procedure the results
were poor or bad.

    There are many, many ways an auditor can deviate from exact
procedure.

    There is only one exact procedure.

    As a result of doing this C/S work, I would, if I were doing
Dianetic C/Sing, refuse to let an auditor audit until he had been
through the HSDC checksheet three times. This would save nearly all the
work required of a case supervisor.

    When the auditor is in a fumbly state regarding the procedure and
has not drilled it until he could do it with the house caving in, the
preclear does not get good results. That is really all there is to it.

    If the auditor simply observes the Auditor's Code, handles TRs and
the meter fairly well and does the assessments and R3R exactly as laid
out, the results will be found to be astonishingly good, even
miraculous.

    To correct a bad session the normal action of the C/S is to order
the offbeat actions done correctly.

    Example:

    A. Auditor assessed by interest only, not by read and the session
bogged down. C/S action--reassess by longest read.

    B. Medical terms and operations were part of assessment list, one
was chosen and case bogged. C/S action, order such be taken off the list
and somatics, pains, sensations, emotions only be assessed.

    C. Pc was put through each incident on the chain only once and
finally bogged. C/S action, order the whole chain rerun so that pc has
been through each one twice and the earliest one found erased.

                THE IVORY TOWER 573

    D. A basic was found and auditor told it was erasing but sent pc
earlier. Pc could find nothing so auditor left it. C/S orders the basic
erased.

    E. Auditor tells pc he won't run it because it "isn't an engram."
C/S action order auditor to retrain on Auditor's Code and do
"invalidation" and "evaluation" in clay. Orders pc to a Scientology
review, green form.

    F. Pc very nattery to auditor. C/S orders auditor to fly each
rudiment, "and be sure to pull all withholds."

    G. C/S finds his orders to complete a chain left undone with a high
TA was not done--folder mislaid or pc not routed. Pc has become ill.
Order the pc to medical treatment and the chain completed.

    You see how it is. Each time the auditor violated normal simple
procedure, the C/S orders that the normal simple procedure be completed
either by first giving pc a Scientology green form in Qual and then
completing the Standard Dianetics action or omitting Qual (when pc not
out-rud) just getting the real standard action done.

    This is really all there is to case supervising Dianetic case
folders. The more you try to do something else than the above the
further the case will go wrong.

    The Dianetic auditor does not have to know how to do green forms and
these are ~not done~ in Standard Dianetic sessions. When they have to be
done you get a Scientology auditor to do them.

    This is case supervision, Dianetics. It has been fully worked out by
my case supervising a great many Dianetic sessions to launch this new
view of Dianetics. And the above is what I found.

    It drives home also the necessity of training Dianetic auditors as
precision technologists and the risk of letting people audit before they
are fully grooved in on exactly what's done in a Dianetic session.

    It is very easy to case supervise a Dianetic folder and pcs being
handled by Dianetics.

    There is ~very~ little to Dianetic C/S work.

    The case supervisor ~must~ be a Hubbard Dianetic Counselor. There is
no substitute for that. One who isn't

                574 BOOK THREE

would hopelessly snarl up real Dianetic auditors or students aspiring to
be such.

    The Dianetic C/S should really be a Hubbard Dianetic Graduate (HDG)
~and~ a Class VIII. Even so he has to keep these technologies completely
separate.

    One ~never~ asks a Dianetic auditor in a Dianetic session to do
anything except Standard Dianetics. There are ~no~ other actions.

    The C/S, in correcting an auditor, should do it positively and refer
to the Dianetic technical bulletin. Negative criticism, I have found,
undermines auditors. One can easily say the same thing in a positive
way. Instead of "You broke the Auditor's Code" one can as easily say
"Pcs must be rested before session. See Auditor's Code."

    One ~never~ gets inventive in doing a Dianetic C/S. It is all very
straightforward.

    The C/S point of view in Dianetic C/Sing is that one is trying to
get Standard Dianetics done. One isn't, in dianetics C/Sing, torturously
laboring to solve some difficult case.

    Therefore there are only four possible actions for a Dianetic C/S to
take:

    ~A. The case that makes gains is given more Dianetics~.

    ~B. The case that has had all possible Dianetic gain~ (and that is
considerable) ~is sent on to Scientology~.

    ~C. The case that makes no gain due to case "oddity" is sent to a
Scientology review~.

    ~D. The session that is non-standard in auditing requires the pc be
sent to Scientology review~.

    It is the fantastic fact that the pc will ~only~ get Dianetic wins
when receiving Standard Dianetics. Non-standardness only once in a
hundred will give a case gain and that is a fluke. The case supervisor
must have good subjective and objective reality on this fact. ~He~ must
therefore be the ultimate in dictatorial martinet precision in requiring
~standard~ auditing and assigning standard C/Ses.

    There are two types of cases only that come up.

    1. The case as in A above who just goes on getting wins.

                THE IVORY TOWER 575

    2. The case (who in life is usually chronically ill even if "up and
about") that requires a C/S to play adept Scientology reviewes against
Dianetic auditing. Such a case is "solved" by now being sent to review,
now being sent to Dianetics, back and forth.

    In D above, the pc who gets a non-standard session and is bogged at
the examiner's is simply given a Scientology green form to F/N. He or
she is then returned to Dianetic auditing. This is a very usual, easy
action.

    In C above, the "oddity" case is easily recognizable in the folder.
The oddity consists mainly of getting Dianetic auditing, getting sick.
Or in getting auditing but not being able to follow good standard
commands.

    Such a case also has a history of being ill. This case also can't
make any real headway in study and messes up pcs as an auditor and can't
seem to do standard auditing.

This C case, at first glance, seems to be hopelessly difficult and
invites many to squirrel.

    The case is more prevalent than one would think. It runs as high as
50% of voluntary pcs.

    It could run much higher in the workaday world. One spots the case
~only by the cases's reaction to good~ Dianetic auditing, not by any
opinion or test.

    But this case isn't any real challenge to the C/S or Scientology
review auditor.

    Underlying all this illness and inability to concentrate or study or
audit or hold case gains there is a heavily burdened chain that makes
things seem very different than they are.

    There is no trick to resolving the C case.

    The C/S, having seen that the person rollercoasters after Dianetic
auditing, or can't study or can't audit, orders the person to review
for:

    "Green Form to F/N."

    "Assess No. 40 GF and handle."

    The Scientology auditor in review does this. No. 40 GF is the "Seven
Resistive Cases."

    Then the C/S sends the pc back to Dianetic auditing for routine
assessments and R3R.

    It is a saddening event to a C/S when the Scientology review auditor
lets him down. So an accomplished Class VIII

                576 BOOK THREE

on that review spot is worth his weight in blessings. Lucky is the C/S
who has a fine Class VIII. When he doesn't have he orders only one
action done between C/Ses and watches like a hawk. Reviewing reviewes is
a horrible waste of time, even though it has to be done when necessary.

    This C type pc will now sail along for a while in Dianetics. But
don't be amazed to have the pc rollercoaster ~again~.

    When the C type pc does you simply order again a Scientology review
and Green Form to F/N and No. 40 GF and handle. And it will all come out
differently this time. And then the pc is sent back for more Dianetics.

    This is what is meant by interplaying Dianetics with Scientology
reviews for a C type case.

    You will just be ~amazed~ at the eventual result in the pc. Really a
cracked case, man!

    Very sick pcs are sent directly to a medico of course. And Dianetic
auditing is given along with medical treatment to get the pc off stuck
points. This is all covered in medical uses of Dianetics and includes
touch assists.

    The "insane" pc is given absolute rest, a secure environment and any
needful medical treatment (but never shock or surgery of the brain or
nerves, of course, since that's only depersonalization treatment).

    When in better physical health the "insane" pc is given just routine
Standard Dianetics. But the sessions must be flubless and thoroughly
within the Auditor's Code as the "insane" can't stand up to any goofs or
overwhelm.

    These "insane" pcs are most often simple cases of medically ill
people--gallstones, malnutrition, deficiencies in certain vitamins,
broken backs--the usual.

    To undertake to ~audit~ an "insane" pc to sanity without complete
attention to the above paragraphs is adventurous in our experience. But
with these things given attention, the "insane" pc often responds
amazingly. But do not be surprised to find that the "insane" pc turns
into a C type as he comes up the scale.

    The main trouble with the "insane" is that too many people around
them are completely devoted to making them even more insane and they
almost never respond to any

                THE IVORY TOWER 577

treatment, medical or Dianetic, while kept in their same environment
associating with the same people. We have the technology to handle the
insane pc. This will be the subject of another book.

    We could say that "Hell hath no fury to match that of a cured
psychotic's associates." Usually the real crazy one is an associate, not
the "insane" one.

    In doing a C/S on a Dianetic folder, I usually inspect the following
in the following order:

    1. The examiner's report to see if the pc thought it was okay and if
the examiner's TA, needle and indicator observation is all right.

    2. The pre-session C/S to see what was previously ordered done.

    3. The session to see if the C/S was done.

    4. The 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 sequence and A, B, C, D to see if
it is standard. I seldom read text if the session was okay at the
examiner unless the session did not go well.

    5. The F/N, cognition and GIs or VGIs at chain and session ends.

    If all that is okay I give it a "well done."

    If it isn't okay I look for the 1, 2, 3, etc. that was not followed
by an A, B, C, D but by a new 1, 2, 3, 4, etc., instead.

    I try to find where the session went off standard and point out the
standard actions that should have been done.

    If the pc came out of it okay, I order more Dianetic auditing.

    If the pc didn't, I send the pc to review.

    If it had lots of A, B, C, Ds and ground to a high TA session end I
check to see if the auditor asked for an earlier beginning.

    If the Dianetic folder is getting fat and the session was
unsuccessful I look for a possible C type pc and handle accordingly.

    If the pc is reported ill, I order medical, an assist and treat the
pc thereafter as a C type.

    The ~value~ of a C/S whether Dianetic or Scientology depends on his
unfailing adherence to standard actions.

                578 BOOK THREE

    A C/S that dreams things up to try to "solve a case" by squirrel
processes is worse than no case supervisor at all.

    The gain of cases depends on the standard, unswerving adherence to
Standard Dianetics, to C/Sing in complete standardness and a Scientology
review auditor who really is a flawless standard technology man.

    The result is the result of a ~team~. To that team ~one~ also adds
the admin team of the rest of the group doing ~their~ jobs.

    Given all that, one can straighten up whole population areas and
activities and get the job done on the goal lines of well and happy
human beings and a well and happy society both with greatly increased
survival potential.

    C/Sing is a happy job itself. And blessed is a C/S who has good
standard Dianetic auditors and good review auditors on his lines and a
good Dianetic course supervisor making new good Dianetic auditors.

    The C/S's job only becomes unhappy and impossible when the auditors
are non-standard or the admin people never heard of lines or policy and
he himself departs from the straight and narrow of Standard Dianetics
and standard technology.

    The purpose of Dianetics can be accomplished smoothly and easily
only if the above are taken into account.

    These C/S data are as thoroughly researched in practical application
of technology itself and are derived from hard won practical experience.


¤Case Folder Analysis, Dianetics¤


    There are only nine things that can go wrong in a Dianetic session.

    These are the only reasons chains do not erase or the session does
not complete with very good indicators.

    The first eight come under the heading of auditing skill or
knowledge.

    They are listed in order of frequency:

    1. Auditor comm lag (lack of speed in giving commands.)

    2. Flubbed commands in which the commands are used incorrectly.

                THE IVORY TOWER 579

    3. TRs out, either being inaudible or overwhelming or TR-4 not
handled.

    4. Auditor additives.

    5. Failure to call for an earlier beginning of the incident when the
pc can find no earlier incident--results in grinding and high TA.

    6. Failure to call for an earlier incident when there is one.

    7. Demanding pc goes earlier when the last incident was basic,
making pc jump into another chain.

    8. Misassessment (multiple item or narrative item or both or taking
an item that doesn't read or in which pc has no interest).

    9. Pc has out rudiments.

    Note that the first four are ~beyond the view of the case
supervisor~.

    The largest number of session failures come under these first four.
Therefore it is routine for the case supervisor to have the pc asked
what the auditor did. It is usually surprising. It will be one of the
first four listed above. It requires a retrain.

    The next four are also auditor flubs but are detectable if the case
supervisor reads the worksheets of the session.

    Therefore the case supervisor must know 5, 6, 7 and 8 above very
well indeed and be able to look for them. In all of these the TA goes
high or very low and the session ends up as a bust.

    You can easily see 5. The pc is still on the same chain but
begins to grind ABCD ABCD ABCD ABCD, the TA goes way up or down below 2
and the auditor command "Is there an earlier beginning" is spectacularly
absent.

    So the C/S tells the next auditor to get the earlier beginning of
the same incident and it will F/N, erase and get VGIs.

    Six is very easy for the C/S to spot. The pc has been given
ABCD ABCD ABCD ABCD ABCD etc., ~and~ has been asked for an earlier
beginning to the same incident but hasn't been asked for an earlier
incident. So the C/S tells the next auditor to get an earlier incident.

                580 BOOK THREE

    Seven is also easy for a C/S to detect from the worksheets of the
session. Before the pc got into another chain by being forced to go
earlier below basic, the TA went to a normal range, there may even be a
cognition noted. The auditor missed the potential F/N by just not
putting the pc through the basic again ABCD. Also the pc protested or
had trouble when the auditor tried to go "earlier than basic" and also
may mention another somatic.

    In 8, misassessment, you can tell just by looking at the item that
is is multiple such as "A burning pain in my hair and a feeling of
tension in my hand"; that it is narrative, "getting my feet wet"
(where's the feeling in that????); or after the fact of the engram
"dizziness after a car wreck." A real classic would be "A stomach ache
when I was thrown from a horse." The C/S hardly has to look at the end
of the session to know it will be no erasure, high or low TA and bad
indicators at the examiner.

    As auditors who do these last four things have their basic
definitions madly out (such as "I never did understand what a somatic
was") and as in the first four the approach to the pc, TRs and additives
need ironing out, the C/S sends the auditor for retrain.

    From the C/S point of view (and fact) the technology applied gets
uniform good results. Thus the C/S ~never gets reasonable~.

    The auditor will on retrain settle down. 100% sessions will occur
regularly when he really can audit.

    The commonest C/S for a pc after a session that ends with a high TA
or a below 2 TA and/or bad indicators at examiner is "To Review, GF to
F/N. Assess auditors, auditing, Dianetics, Scientology, sessions,
reviews, gains (or whatever you care to add), prepcheck.* Review auditor
to (complete chain) (check last incident for earlier beginning and
complete chain) (complete first chain left incomplete when pc forced
into second chain and then complete second chain) (find out what was
wrong in session and correct)." Use the one in brackets that applies.

    In number 9, we get several manifestations. The pc has a good
looking session yet complains to the examiner. That

                THE IVORY TOWER 581

is to say VGIs, F/N, cognition at session end, but sour grapes later at
the examiner.

    A pc who gets sad at session end and is or has been sad for a long
time and is sad and moping or despondent is, of course, suffering from
an ARC break and is being audited over one and probably has had it for a
long duration. The proper C/S action is "To Review, GF to F/N. Check ARC
break long duration (LD)." This last is done with itsa earlier itsa and
ARCU CDEINR by the auditor.

    The pc who is being audited over a PTP won't be making any gains.
They quickly evaporate. The C/S orders "To review. GF to F/N. Check
problems and being audited over problems."

    When a pc is a bit nasty to the auditor or examiner, he is of course
being audited over withholds. The C/S is "To Review. GF to F/N. Then
check and pull all withholds and check if the pc has been audited over
withholds."

    When a pc is ill or has a history of illness you get him or her
medical attention and list all somatics, etc., in the area and run them
all by R3R.

    When a pc gets ill after auditing but the sessions look all right,
you can be pretty sure that the pc is being audited over out ruds so a
C/S orders "To Review. GF to F/N. Assess GF 40 and handle any out ruds
found in that assessment first."

    There may be some special versions of out ruds but they are all one
variety or another of out rud.

    The pc himself can generate out ruds by lying to his Dianetic
auditor. It still shows up as out ruds, withholds.

    One pc (out of a hundred) said uniformly that "it was getting more
solid" to escape each incident, got himself into a jump chain situation
continually and became very ill indeed. This also operated as a withhold
in session. It was not detectable in the worksheets except that the pc
became ill. It came out while flying ruds in a review session.

    But generally pcs don't act up in sessions if the auditing is
straightforward and many get better even when audited over all kinds of
out ruds.

                582 BOOK THREE

    When a C/S begins to be mystified concerning some pc, why betterment
isn't occurring--why the pc's manifestations and remarks never
change--or the pc becomes ill, then only four things need to be done.
And all four should be ordered by the C/S.

    1. Medical exam and any treatment.

    2. Review to straighten up all out ruds.

    3. Dianetic auditing listing all somatics, etc., in area and R3R on
all those that read.

    And when the pc has markedly recovered:

    4. Fly a rud, GF 40 and handle every item that reads fully.

    The use of GF 40 is not restricted only to sick pcs. One gives any
pc whose folder gets the least bit fat the GF 40 routine and assumes
he's out of valence whether it reads or not and then send the pc back to
Dianetics.

    There is one other flub a bit maddening to a C/S.

    When the C/S says "Assess existing lists or add" and the auditor
says no items, it is quite often an auditor flub, a special kind of the
number 8 above--misassessment.

    One green auditor took three pcs in a row and could find no item,
concluding that each of the three pcs was done with Dianetics! It turned
out that the auditor's TR-1 was so bad the pcs couldn't hear her!

    Another auditor didn't have his meter plugged in and another one was
found never to have done any meter drills.

    Aside from getting the pc asked what the auditor did, which also
should be done when it's obvious there should have been an item and
wasn't, the C/S should order "Do a new health form" when the old list
F/Ns or draws a blank even when properly assessed.

    The pc can also be sent to the examiner to be asked if there is
anything not handled. The pc may give an area of interest. If there is
one, but it hasn't read, the C/S should send the pc to review for GF to
F/N and probably a GF 40 and handle. Then one can get the area asked
about in review and "suppress," "inval" and "protest" put in on it and
back to Dianetics.

    I have personally C/Sed a vast number of Standard Dianetic sessons
and the above is all I had to do or know to keep them all going well.

                THE IVORY TOWER 583

    If you look for tricky processes in Dianetics to "solve" some case,
you will make a bad error as a C/S. They all come under the above data.


¤C/Sing Full Flow Dianetics (FFD)¤


    If when I am C/Sing I ever find an auditor has omitted key session
actions or has falsified a report, I order that auditor not to cramming
but a full retrain.

    The safest course, especially in handling rundowns like Full Flow
Dianetics (FFD), is to require special drilling and cramming on auditors
who are already known for their results by actual success story stats.

    Any trouble a C/S is running into comes from the factors of TRs,
metering, code and incomplete or false auditor's reports.

    A C/S does not see these points. He can get the pc asked what the
auditor is doing or did. He can get sessions monitored. This helps him
fill this gap in his data.

    It's what isn't in the auditor's report that is often the trouble.
Auditors omit what they said, omit the firefight, omit session alter-is
in their worksheets.

    All this sticks the C/S's neck out for the axe of failure.

    So particularly in FFD and other such actions, a C/S has to act to
obtain confidence in the auditor's TRs, metering, code use and accurate
worksheets.

    In FFD experience has proven that if the auditor is not top grade,
if the C/S is not alert, we put a pc at risk.

    The USUAL is what keeps the pc safe.

    A thorough study of his case, looking for obvious bugs (such as the
case a druggie but drug engrams never run), sending auditors to cramming
for the slightest flub, insisting on standard TRs USED IN SESSION, good
metering, use of the code, accurate and complete worksheets, use of
standard tech, all guarantee the safety and progress of the pc.

    FFD requires flawless C/Sing and auditing or the case goes wrong.

    When this action was introduced it showed up any flaws in case
studying, TRs, metering, code and worksheets.

    There are two ways to handle.

                584 BOOK THREE

    a. Cancel FFD as an action. Obviously that is going backwards and is
impossible.

    b. Begin and continue a serious, effective campaign to (1) train
auditors better, (2) cram expertly on every flub, (3) raise quality of
TRs and metering.

    As you can see, my approach is to improve quality of training,
cramming and delivery.

    Please help me out in getting this in.

    The whole "secret" of producing high case gain and total results
with Dianetic and Scientology auditing lies in the following.

    When an auditor can produce exact auditing on Dianetics you know he
can audit.

    Dianetics is a very simple, precise procedure. The ~major~ errors
are:

    a. misassessment (inability to use a meter usually but out TRs can
do it)

    b. taking narrative somatics and running them

    c. forcing a pc toward "earlier incident" when it required "earlier
beginning" making the pc jump chains,

    d. fumbling commands

    e. out TRs.

    An auditor's poor TRs and corny errors such as above will prevent
Dianetic results.

    But the Standard Dianetic auditing is so simple ~that it
demonstrates clearly whether the PERSON can audit or not~.

    Therefore it is vital that an auditor be a proven result-getting
standard Dianetic auditor before any result can be expected of him in
his/her Scientology auditing.

    We have now had several dark mysteries cleared up on this subject
with many examples. For instance, one auditor who had been thought a
competent Class VI* and had been "auditing" for years was found to be
getting too many failed pcs; he was trained up as a standard Dianetic
auditor and on his first sessions it was found that he could not produce
standard Dianetic results; he was vigorously groomed on his TRs which
were wildly out and always had been and made to do the very exact
businesslike procedure of Standard Dianetics. He then got excellent
Standard Dianetics results

                THE IVORY TOWER 585

session after session on his pc and could be designated as a very good
Dianetic auditor. He was briefly retreaded on his Scientology materials
and at once could get terrific results with upper level Scientology.

    From this we can state without any fear of contradiction by your
future experience that:

    A Class VIII who is not a proven standard Dianetic auditor as well
is not dependable as an auditor no matter who trained him.

    The practice of loosely certifying Dianetic auditors without total
proof that they get excellent uniform session results on Dianetic pcs
can foul up the whole field and jeopardize the entire auditing future of
the student. To certify a Dianetic auditor who doesn't get provenly
excellent standard Dianetic results is an act of treason against all
that person's future pcs and all the rest of us.

    If technology is "out" in an area it will be because some of the
auditors, whatever their class, are not capable of delivering simple
standard Dianetic sessions, regardless of the level at which they are
auditing. And out-technology will be compounded if the case supervisor
is not ALSO an excellent Dianetic auditor for he won't know the errors
for which to look.

    When you can really dig this and know it and get it in practice, the
bulk of out-technology and "failed pcs" in an area will vanish.

    I know it is sometimes hard to achieve a simplicity as simple as
standard Dianetics but when it is done, technical worries from there on
up are over.


¤Auditor Training¤


    I have made a breakthrough in auditor training which gives us 100
percent training success and 100 percent results on Dianetic sessions.

    In C/Sing hundreds of Dianetics sessions I found that the auditors'
reports on failed sessions did not include any reason for the failure.
In researching this I found that only

                586 BOOK THREE

certain auditors were failing. Thus, it was not a technical failure but
an auditor failure.

    In a glance over the case folders of some stalled or "chronically
ill" pcs I found the main sin was simply "no auditing" occurring in the
following ways:

    Case 1--Three case supervision directions carefully and correctly
advised but NONE OF THEM DONE. No other auditing was done either. Then a
fourth case supervision direction on top ignoring the folder and
advising something else but that not done either.

    Case 2--Preclear chronically doing badly. Was being "audited" but
hadn't a clue. Was not up to talking to an auditor at all. (I ordered
TRs and the auditor did them, the pc bloomed and went on up the grades
splendidly.)

    Case 3--Pc all crippled up from old injuries. In the folder I found
no C/Ses there had been done as ordered. Also found the pc had sneaked
his folder and done some wild self-auditing before auditing could be
done. (Ordered touch assists and then medical treatment to set a
long-time ~broken back~.)

    Case 4--Pc ~told~ the auditor in the session she had a secondary
sitting right there and was in it. And although bad indicators in, the
auditor just ended the session.

    Case 5--Pc ordered in for a review, was given the cans, the auditor
said "That's it," pc went off in mystery.

    Case 6--Pc shaking and fevered but no physical illness according to
doctor. Auditor A did an S & D (Search and Discovery). Pc still not
well. A few weeks later illness recurred. I got hold of the pc, asked
when the shaking had begun, found an engram where the pc had been
withholding being cold, ran it, pc totally recovered. The incident had
occurred only a day before Auditor A's session. Had Auditor A merely
asked what had been going on he would have found it at once, run it and
that would have been that. It was only an auditing assist that was
needed It hadn't ever occurred to me that auditors wouldn't use the
principle of engram running to handle a pc who hurt.

    So it adds up to the fact that just not ~doing~ auditing is a
fundamental error. That's what's meant by "no auditing." Auditing just
wasn't used to handle the pc. "No auditing."

                THE IVORY TOWER 587

    The ~new~ pc who hasn't a clue what auditing is is apt to get a lot
of "no auditing." So you teach him what to expect by posters, personal
efficiency lectures, TRs.

    The ~troubled~ pc who is all introverted with a real physical or
mental problem had jolly well better get it handled, Dianetically. You
don't just sail on up the grades and throw them away.

    If you ever get an area that thinks Dianetics and Scientology don't
work (which is about as silly as saying there is no gravity) then

    a. You have an area that has been infiltrated and the technical
performance perverted or

    b. You have a person around who is terrified that it ~will~ work and
others grown more powerful will now destroy him,

    or

    c. You have a narcotic-silly area and are not making them desist
before auditing or handling their past addiction by running out its
engrams, or

    d. You have an area that just isn't auditing at all, or

    e. You are not handling new pcs as we used to and as recommended
above.

    So lay this down, case supervisors and auditors all, as a firm
cast-in-concrete rule:

    IF YOUR PC DOES NOT OBTAIN A TOTAL REALITY ON HAVING
HAD GAINS BEYOND HIS EXPECTATIONS, AUDITING HAS NOT BEEN
DONE IN THE FIRST PLACE OR THE PC IS ON DRUGS OR
PHYSICALLY ILL.

    I look at it this way, auditing is terribly simple. Turn me loose
with an E-meter and a pc and up the line he comes. If he doesn't or
can't respond he's seriously ill. If he's that ill that he can't be
audited he needs medical treatment. And when he's had that, back to the
meter and I'll show you a shining pc.

    You say, "Yes, that's you. You know and can do it."

    Sure, sure, sure. But anyone who has studied his meter, his books
and materials can do it just as easily. If the pc answers his questions
and ~if he does audit~.

    These folders must therefore contain false reports or no reports on
what had happened.

                588 BOOK THREE

    For all that I could see, as the case supervisor, new Dianetics
technology was failing on some cases.

    Further investigation disclosed that things had gone on in those
sessions which were nonstandard but not reported.

    In developing this I discovered the golden rule:

    When you have a failed session you ask the pc what the auditor did.

    In this way you discover an amazing array of flagrant outnesses.
With these you can retrain the auditor and he or she will then win every
time.

    We have compiled a large array of samples of outnesses found, any
one of which would have made a session fail or cause a Dianetic auditor
not to obtain results.

    The variety can be infinite in number but the chief one is: ~failing
to give the next command~.

    The new auditor does not realize how serious it is to flub a
command.

    The pc is "down the track" and not in present time. He looks like he
is there. When he fails to get the next command or gets a wrong command
he becomes alarmed, comes into present time as best he can and the
auditor loses control.

    Anytime a pc is made to wait, whether by a wrong command or no
command or an auditor writing too much on his worksheet, a Dianetic
session crashes.

    The TA may go up or down, the chain messes up and the session fails.

    Other additives or outnesses mess things up. An auditor instead of
auditing talking about other pcs or his own case, an auditor halting to
look up a word for himself, a thousand such actions can, any one, wreck
a session.

    Auditing is very fast and very exact.

    It is a businesslike activity.

    It is a technical preciseness.

    When that is violated one gets failed sessions.


¤Dianetics, Major Auditing Faults¤


    The major Dianetic auditing faults I have observed over a large
number of case supervised sessions are:

                THE IVORY TOWER 589

    1. ~Not doing it~. Not doing it at all. Finding something but not
running it out. Not continuing down the chain. Not continuing to audit
what is now troubling the pc. Not finding a new chain or somatic to
erase.

    2. ~Crossing Dianetics with Scientology~. These are two separate
subjects. All the data of Dianetics that is used in practice is
contained in this book.

    3. ~Invalidating what the pc says it is~. Changing what the pc says
on the Health Form. Refusing to take what the pc gives as the incident
because the auditor considers it not to be a lock, secondary, or engram.

    4. ~Not discharging each incident contacted on the chain~. Only
doing one run through an incident then going earlier leaving
restimulated incidents all over the track.

    5. ~Ceasing to run the chain after obtaining an F/N on a lock or
secondary~. Failure to distinguish between key-out and erasure.

    6. ~Failing to use Dianetic assists on a person who has had a recent
operation, accident, or severe loss~. Failing to erase the engram chain
as soon as possible after the accident. Neglecting one's fellows and not
using Dianetics to help them.

    7. ~Following narrative chain instead of somatic chain~

    8. ~Attempting to run out a medical term~. Running migraine
headache, sciatica, etc., instead of finding out what it feels like to
the pc and using that for a chain.

    9. ~Assigning a pc with a psychotic history to a non-standard
auditor~. With such a pc you have to be very careful to go to F/N or
erase and not let them be goofed up by an auditor who doesn't follow
exact procedure and the Auditor's Code.

    10. ~Failing to erase the cause of something~. When you fail to
erase the cause of something you can expect it to come back. It may even
come back at the end of the session.

    11. ~Assigning husband-wife auditing teams~. This should be avoided
whenever possible as it requires a very good auditor indeed to be
effective when he or she is also the husband or wife.

                590 BOOK THREE

    12. ~Running items taken randomly~ instead of doing a meter
assessment, taking largest read, checking for pc interest and then
running.

    13. ~Taking up a new somatic when the pc mentions it~ instead of
continuing to erase the chain already started.

    14. ~Improper R3R procedure~. Particularly doing duration step on
the second and subsequent runs through the same incident.

    15. ~Running an incident or somatic chain pc is not interested in~.
Read was on protest, not on the somatic.

    16. ~Out admin~. Mainly illegible reports and not stating what chain
is being run or how.

    17. ~Invalidating pc ability to erase~. Done by trying to get an
earlier incident when current incident is erasing, or by continuing to
grind on with something already erased.

    18. ~Grinding on an incident too late on the chain~.

    19. ~Auditor not understanding erasure~. Common one is auditor
thinking a picture getting more visible is erasing.

    20. ~Auditing a pc who doesn't know what is happening~. Pc doesn't
understand what a session is or what erasure, locks, secondaries or
engrams are.

    21. ~Giving altered training or evaluative examination~. Messing up
the material being taught or the standard so he fails to learn the exact
simplicity of Dianetics in the first place.

    Standard Dianetics fully applied produces miraculous results.

    The foremost failure of Dianetics on cases, by actual inspection, is
a failure to DO Dianetics.

    It may sound peculiar or too obvious to say that. But this fact has
to be stressed since it was found to be the leading reason for
nonrecovery.

    Even this has its degrees of error.

    First is just ~NO~ auditing. A case wasn't audited at all. No
session, no auditor, no auditing. Complaint, "I'm a Scientologist. I
still have awful headaches." Sounds really incriminating. The ~fact~ is
in this question "Did anybody run the engram?" "No, just grades."

    Dianetics wasn't used at all!

                THE IVORY TOWER 591

    The next degree is starting in on a lock, secondary, engram or chain
of them and not completing it to erasure. Running the pc through one
engram once with no good indicators or erasure and then calling it a
session is really no auditing. Next session you must ~complete the
action started~.

    The next degree is to get rid of one chronic somatic or sensation
and then fail to carry on when the pc has others too.

    An illness has several sources expressed each one as a different
sesnation, ache, pain, or emotion. ~Every one of these is out of a
mental image picture or the series of them called a chain~.

    The degree of omission in applying Dianetics is that one did not
take up each separately stated or assessed symptom and erase its
source--that particular mental image picture.

    The vast majority of Dianetic cases I have case supervised have this
in common--~no auditing~ in one or more instances outlined above.

    Really it's kind of "corny" as an error. It is so "corny" that
people try to make more of it than simply the patient or engram didn't
get audited.

    Example:

    "She still has her headaches."

    "Did you find and audit the mental image picture of the experiences
which had head injury in it?"

    "No."

    "Well, did you give her a session?"

    "Yes."

    "What did you run?"

    "I did power on her."

    "Then you didn't give her a Dianetic session."

    "Oh, no. Dianetics is old, we don't do that anymore. She still has
her headaches . . ."

    POW!


¤Case Supervision, How it Goes Non-Standard¤


    Probably the number one lesson that has to be learned by a case
supervisor without any wiggles or doubts or

                592 BOOK THREE

derails is that he can be (and must not be) driven off standard tech by
false auditing reports.

    At least half the failed sessions he gets are false reports!

    The auditor has not noted some of the things he did or he has noted
things that did not happen.

    The person who falsifies an auditing report usually is the same
person who gets bad results. Naturally.

    The report is usually not knowingly false. It does not include the
data as to why the session failed.

    This leaves the case supervisor with an impression that standard
tech was done but that it failed. That sends him into a figure-figure
and proposing unusual solutions. This gets him into reviewing reviews,
long hours of C/Sing, backlogs and an area muddied up by "failed cases."

    A case supervisor has to know his standard tech forwards and
backwards.

    In a correct auditing report of a failed session the answer as to
why it failed is neon light big and glaring. So the case supervisor
corrects it and corrects the auditor.

    But that is only true of about half the failed sessions the case
supervisor gets. ~The other half of the failed sessions are false
reports~.

    Instead of going the route and first getting inventive and then
damning tech and taking up yogi, the case supervisor ~must~ realize:

    1. That if he himself doesn't know his Dianetics and Scientology
cold, he will certainly never be able to spot errors in its application

    2. That standard tech--Dianetics and Scientology--are invariable in
results and that the only variables are the case supervisor and the
auditor

    3. That there are no "different" pcs

    4. That 50% of the failed sessions are also false reports if you
can't find in the folder why the session failed

    5. That if you can't find in the folder why the session failed or
the pc isn't doing well you get the pc asked about the session and get
~data~ as to why it failed (The answers and outnesses will amaze you.)

    6. That when the above fully dawn on a case supervisor he becomes
totally successful.

                THE IVORY TOWER 593

    There is a sort of breakthrough a case supervisor makes, a sort of
crisis he passes through where the above points suddenly become
glaringly clear to him. After that he is a hard-eyed, uncompromising
precisionist that nothing gets by and whose field area gets
results--results--results and tech and stats soar.

    It doesn't take too much. Given a command of the technology,
Dianetics and Scientology, he can spot easily in the worksheets why a
failed session went adrift, send it to review to be remedied and send
the auditor to cramming.

    But the session where the pc left the session with "F/N, VGIs, 2.0"
and arrives at examiner with "needle tight, 4.3, indicators poor" and in
which all seems usual and standard . . . ! Hey! That's a false auditing
report. It doesn't mean standard technology doesn't work! It means a
false worksheet. You haven't got the data needed to handle or do the
next C/S.

    So you have somebody else ask the pc what happened in that session
and get it written down and get the folder back.

    Man, it would knock over an elephant. Some of the things you get
back! "Well he was reading off items I guess but I couldn't hear him . .
." "I asked him not to shout and he said 'I'm the auditor, not you.'" "I
kept trying to tell him I was exterior . . ." "He wouldn't accept the
withhold. He said it wasn't a withhold because he'd heard it from my
wife . . ." "I had to keep telling him what the next command was . . ."
"But it ~wasn't~ a headache that I was trying to get handled. I was
vomiting during most of the session . . ."

    Boy, the world of never-never that lies behind those reports where
you can't find the reason:

    Suddenly, as I say, the case supervisor makes his own personal
breakthrough. His, "I wonder what's really wrong with this pc . . ."
turns into, "Auditor to cramming to review R3R commands and TR-104. Pc
to review for GF to F/N."

    Oh, you say, "we don't have an examiner in our mission"--Listen, you
had better teach your receptionist to do an examiner form. "Yes, but we
don't have a case supervisor or cramming." Brother, are you so in love
with the buck that you'll salt out your whole area with failed cases
just to get high pay on low stats? Auditing is a TEAM action. If you
can't do it as a team action it's not standard

                594 BOOK THREE

administration to begin with and sure as shooting your practice or your
mission will fail in the long run.

    Maybe that's the first breakthrough the case supervisor makes. To
realize auditing actions are team actions.

    But not to get off the rails, IF YOU CAN'T FIND THE FAILURE
IN THE FOLDER GET THE PC ASKED, FOR YOU'RE LOOKING
AT A FALSE IF ONLY INCOMPLETE WORKSHEET.

    The following auditing errors were discovered by asking the pc what
was done in their sessions after the sessions had mysteriously failed
without any reason apparent in the auditor report sheets. Each one of
these is a flagrant departure from standard auditing and is adequate to
stop all pc gains for the session and to leave the pc stuck down the
track and heavily keyed-in.

    These are just given as samples of outnesses to show what you will
find by asking the pc and to show what can cause a Dianetic session to
have a poor result. These instances and others actually occurred in
sessions and the sessions failed. There was no mention of them in the
report form, summary or worksheets and only asking the pc brought them
to light.

    1. Auditor not remembering one or more of the commands

    2. Auditor delaying the pc while thinking of the next command

    3. Auditor failure to give the next command

    4. Giving wrong or altered commands

    5. Incorrect procedure

    6. Invalidating the pc's cognitions

    7. Not recognizing that the pc had gone through the incident and
just waiting or saying "Okay, continue" when the pc had said that was
all

    8. Auditor during session looking up something he (the auditor)
didn't understand that the pc said

    9. Auditing pc in circumstances where the pc is expecting he may be
disturbed at some time later in the session

    10. Auditor walking out of auditing room leaving pc folder in room
with pc

                THE IVORY TOWER 595

    11. Continuing to audit on a chain that the pc insists is erased
(usually because auditor missed the F/N)

    12. Not acknowledging pc originations

    13. Telling pc to close eyes when pc already has eyes closed

    14. Keeping pc waiting after pc has carried out command

    15. Telling pc to wipe her hands on her dress during session
(auditor attempt to change TA position by session additive)

    16. Auditor running out of ink and having to borrow a pen from the
pc during session

    17. Forcing pc to continue looking for earlier incidents when the pc
can't find any

    18. Auditor talking too quietly for pc to hear (out TR-1)

    19. Auditor ignoring pc originations (out TR-4)

    20. Continuing to "audit" when auditor doesn't know what should be
done next

    21. Auditor staring at meter for a long time looking for F/N (can
turn off a real F/N and bring on an ARC break needle)

    22. Auditing with a contemptuous, sympathetic, too sweet, motherly,
or any attitude that is a departure from a pleasant businesslike
attitude

    23. Auditor talking to pc about auditor's own case in session

    24. Auditor discussing other pcs with current pc in session

    25. Bull-baiting pc when doing C/S 1

    26. Auditor and/or pc smoking or chewing during session

    27. Auditor doing or saying anything during session other than
assessment and exact R3R procedure

    28. Auditor talking to pc after session about something the pc ran
during the session

    29. Auditing with a discharged meter

    30. Auditing with legs up on table or some other improper posture

    31. Auditor commenting on the pc's cognitions

    32. Auditor continuing to grind on the same incident when there's an
earlier one

                596 BOOK THREE

    33. Auditor keeping voluminous admin during which the pc has to wait

    These are just a few examples. There is an infinity of wrongnesses
possible. Every session additive is a departure from TR-0 to TR-4 and a
violation of the Auditor's Code and a gross goof.

    The auditor did not do these things maliciously. He was unaware of
these as goofs and that the session didn't come off seemed to him to be
a complete mystery; the failed sessions were also a mystery to the case
supervisor who also thought technology had failed until he had others
ask the pc what happened in that session.

    Needless to say, the auditors who goofed as above were extensively
audited and retrained on Dianetics using TRs 101, 102, 103 and 104.


¤Case Supervisor--Folder Handling¤


    Go back in the folder to the session where the preclear was running
well and come forward from it doing a folder error summary.

    In reviewing a folder, the first thing to do is to look at the C/S
to see if it was done.

    Use the summary sheet to get the auditor's attitude.

    Use the auditor's report form to get the time of processes.

    Read and take all your data from worksheets and compare it to and
see that the C/S was complied with and ensure standard technology was
applied.

    If you can't read the reports, send it back to have the auditor
overprint illegible words. Never try to case supervise (C/S) an
illegible worksheet as you'll only run into headaches.

    The after session examiner's report gives you the first clue of how
suspicious you should be in exmining the folder and whether or not
auditing reports contain falsities.

    You're never led by anything departing from standard technology. The
~only~ reason it doesn't work is that it hasn't been applied.

                THE IVORY TOWER 597

    The main question of a case supervisor is:

    ~Was it applied?~

    If you follow this exactly, you'll never miss.


¤Folder Error Summaries¤


    A folder error summary, (FES) is usually done by a student auditor,
well taught, learning his practical technology or by an auditor
especially hired to do FESes.

    It requires many hours to put a folder in sequence and then to list
all errors in it.

    It should ~never~ be done by a working C/S who is responsible for a
church or mission's delivery flow.

    It is costly to do an FES and where possible the cost, duly
consulting the pc, should be borne by the pc as a special service.

    It can be directly paid for or simply deducted from auditing hours
purchased.

    A good C/S looking over a folder usually goes back to the last time
the pc was doing really well and notes actions necessary from that
point.

    Thus an FES is ~useful~.

    Auditors and C/Ses so detected are sent to cramming in their areas
to smooth out their technical knowledge or TRs, all to improve delivery
of technology.

    To halt delivery because of a missing folder or to do a long
time-consuming FES is of course contrary to the need to deliver auditing
and can result in a no-auditing situation.

    An FES has value. It is valuable to the pc to get one done. It is a
long and extensive action. It can be sold directly or removed from hours
bought. It is of vast interest in training auditors and should be done
by already trained student auditors or specially hired auditors. It is
~not~ done by a case supervisor and it is ~not~ used to halt all
delivery of auditing and jam up the C/S lines. A lost or delayed folder
is not a barrier to a ~very~ well-trained case supervisor who has
starrated a Case Supervisor's Course. An FES is very useful and tends to
eradicate any mystery for a case supervisor.

                598 BOOK THREE

    These are the most common goofs found made by auditors in case
supervising over a hundred folders.

    1. Pc audited with no instructions from C/S.

    2. Audited on squirrel process.

    3. False auditor report--~flunk flunk~.

    4. Audited past F/N.

    5. Leaving pc with a problem.

    6. Auditing a pc on no sleep.

    7. Not tracing an ARC break, missed withhold, or present time
problem down to basic when it doesn't blow.

    8. Failure to use rudiments before starting major action of session.

    9. Not following C/S instructions.

    10. Taking frequent breaks.


¤Case Supervisor Administration in Auditing¤


    A case supervisor cannot do a decent job of case supervising when he
is presented with lousy administration such as--no auditor report forms,
not handling L3RD reads as they occur, not writing in F/Ns. Also,
illegible writing, failure to go over a report when done and make
obscure words plain in print is a ~no report~ and gets liability.

    When you run into a snag you can't handle, ~don't~ start inventing
technology and doing something else other than the case supervisor's
instructions.

    End off the session and send it to the case supervisor.

    The ~correct~ action and the ~only~ correct action is to end the
session and get folder and session reports to a case supervisor, who (1)
does not see the pc and (2) does not talk to the auditor.

    Case supervision is folder ~only~. Then there's a chance of standard
technology.


¤Session Grading¤


    A "well done" to an auditor requires a precise meaning. It is not
given by the C/S because an auditor is a friend or because he would be
offended if he didn't get one.

                THE IVORY TOWER 599

    "~Well Done" given by the C/S for a session means the pc had F/N
VGIs at the examiner immediately after the session~.

    This then presupposes that session lines include an examiner even if
it's a receptionist and it includes the use and understanding of exam
reports.

    It presupposes the examiner has a meter to hand and that the pc
makes a statement.

    Thus, if there are no exam reports there can't be a well done given,
eh? True enough. A C/S who C/Ses without exam reports done by a
different person that the auditor is asking to fly blind and to get
auditor "PR" (public relations or brag) and false auditing reports.

    No F/N at exam, no well done.

    This is harsh as early on pcs often get no F/N at examiner. ~But in
every case there are current earlier technical errors on the case~ when
the F/N doesn't get from the session to the examiner. It is also harsh
because the failure to get the F/N to the examiner could be a C/S error!
But the auditor should not have accepted the C/S.

    The C/S could be too heavy, or the case needed a repair first or the
process ordered is not part of a proper program.

    ~Hours successfully audited includes only "well done" or "very well
done" sessions~.

    An auditor gets a "~very well done~" when the session by worksheet
inspection, exam report inspection is:

    1. F/N, VGIs at examiner.

    2. The auditing is totally flubless and by the book.

    3. The whole C/S ordered was done without departure and to the
expected result.

    A no mention of well done or very well done or anything simply
means:

    1. F/N did not get to examiner.

    2. No major auditing errors exist in the session.

    A ~flunk~ is given when:

    1. The F/N did not get to examiner and didn't occur at session end.

    2. Major errors or flubs occurred like no EP, multiple somatic,
unflown ruds, etc.

                600 BOOK THREE

    3. The C/S was not followed or completed.

    4. Auditor's rights listed errors occurred.

    5. No F/N and BIs at examiner.

    The exact error must be noted on the worksheet and in the next C/S
along with the flunk.

    When an auditor does not improve but continues to get ~no mentions~
and ~flunks~, he requires retraining.

    Such retraining must include:

    1. Cleaning up all misunderstoods of technology

    2. Cleaning up willingness to audit

    3. Cleaning up overts on people and pcs

    4. Examination by inspection of TRs

    5. Restudying material missed or not grasped as per session
troubles.

    Invalidative remarks should not be made by a C/S. Experience has
shown they do no good and also do harm.

    But there are two methods of invalidating an auditor's auditing:

    1. Let him go on flubbing and getting no results

    2. Direct invalidation of his intentions or future or potential.

    In (1) nearly all auditors who stop auditing never really knew how
to audit in the first place or have gross misunderstoods or have
accumulated intentional or unintentional overts on pcs or who have been
too harshly invalidated. When they don't really grasp the ease and
simplicity of auditing they get into other troubles.

    A really well-trained, smooth auditor never gets any real charge on
his case on the subject of auditing.

    When you let an auditor flub, the whole subject gets invalidated and
he loses his value because he goes into doubt. This can be said with
complete confidence today as the whole of Dianetics and Scientology is
there and it works very, very well indeed ~if it is used and if the
C/Sing and auditing is correct and flubless~.

    The C/S is really not just the case supervisor, he is also the
auditors' handler.

    Like a boxer's trainer or a star's director, the C/S handles his
guys. They are all a bit different, auditors. There

                THE IVORY TOWER 601

are prima donnas and meek mousey ones and steady-going ones and all
kinds.

    They get the credit for the sessions from the pcs most often. They
really don't like not to be C/Sed.

    And they ~value~ the well dones and the very well dones and they
flinch at the flunks. And the honest ones know all about it before they
turn it in. And some don't mention the flub but think you're a fool if
you miss it.

    So it's important to have a constant in assigning what the auditor
is given for the session.

    ~Well done auditing hours~ are all that's valid for a statistic.

    So a C/S must be very exact and correct in his determination of well
done, very well done, no mention and (forlornly) a flunk.

    This should remove argument from the matter and bring certainty.


¤How to Write Up a Cramming Order¤


    There is a certain technology on how to write up a cramming order.

    1. Isolate the exact outnesses in the folder.

    2. Order those materials crammed.

    3. Now look in a slightly wider circle around the data flunked and
get which ~basic~ is involved (i.e. Auditor's Code, TRs, metering,
handling the session, handling the pc as a being, etc.) and get that
crammed, too.

    The C/S can have a feeling the auditor is doing something peculiar
in a certain area (e.g., weak TR-1, or slow TR-2, or can this auditor
see the pc, meter and worksheets all in the same range of vision?) and
request that this be looked into and handled.

    There is a great spirit of cooperation between the cramming officer
and the C/S.

    Together they are building a better bridge in their area and keeping
Dianetics and Scientology working.

                602 BOOK THREE


¤Case Supervisor Signature¤


    All case supervisors must sign their name clearly at the bottom of
each C/S done. If the signature of the C/S is not naturally clear then
it must be printed by the C/S at the bottom right-hand corner of the
page.

    In this way it will be known who is C/Sing a session in the folder.


¤Pc Welfare and The Case Supervisor¤


    Some years ago, before the post of case supervisor came into being
(in 1965) and before the present examiner post was instituted, the
director of processing wore what could be called the "pc welfare hat."*

    Welfare--"The state of being or doing well. Condition of health,
happiness, prosperity. Well being." (~Webster's New World Dictionary~)

    The D of P had as part of his duties interviewing the pcs in the HGC
and seeing to their well-being. To the D of P, pcs brought any
difficulties, questions or upsets not settled in auditing.

    Foremost of the D of Ps in that era was Mary Sue Hubbard. It was
well known that no pc blew the church while she was on that post. They
"blew" to her. She of course was a terminal for the pc who listened and
put them straight back on lines with snappy instructions (now equivalent
to a C/S in the folder) to the auditor. Pcs of course thrived and many
still talk of this and of their subsequent wins.

    An analysis of that action shows two very important points:

    1. Pcs don't really want to blow, even when they do--they pray
someone will come and take them back and get whatever it was
straightened out.

    2. Mary Sue Hubbard was a terminal who, they knew, ~cared~.

    As part of her D of P hat, Mary Sue was wearing what has now been
separated off into the Case Supervisor hat. And that part of caring for
the well-being of the pc also belongs to the ~technical case
supervisor~.

                THE IVORY TOWER 603

    But--you say--the case supervisor mustn't and doesn't ever see the
pc.

    ~That is correct~. Today's case supervisor doesn't have to see the
pc. He sees all and knows all from the folder. He does folder error
summaries. It's all there in the session reports and in the examiner
report forms. And if the case supervisor suspects it ~isn't~ all there
in the reports, he can easily find out by sending the pc to the examiner
to answer some questions.

    What isn't generally realized is that Mary Sue and I were the first
case supervisors, and that I ~still~ wear this hat for the whole planet.
Case supervisors around the world are helping me wear this hat. What may
not be known by some is that part of my C/S hat is the pc welfare hat.

    This hat consists of ~caring about the well-being of the pc~.

    The C/S carries full authority to ensure that pcs are being properly
audited. He does not permit a preclear to be poorly audited. That's
caring.

    When the pc is not going well he finds out ~why~--he doesn't just
try one things or another hoping to patch things up. He does a folder
error summary and finds out when the pc last ran well and what the goof
was. He repairs that pc. That's caring.

    He finds out where the pc really is, and not where he apparently is.
And even if that pc has been audited miles above his actual level, he
has the auditor gently lead him back to Dianetics, or where he actually
is, and audits him up the expanded lower grades. That's caring.

    If the pc has been left in the middle of an engram chain and is
moaning with aches and pains, the C/S doesn't order Scientology auditing
to cure the pains, he orders the engram chain to be erased. The C/S
isn't kind to the auditor who left the pc in the middle of the engram
chain to go to dinner, either. That's caring.

    Of course caring for one's fellow beings and in particular a pc's
well-being is not the exclusive property of the case supervisor, for
every decent auditor and Scientologist cares for his fellow being.

                604 BOOK THREE

    But in the confines of the case supervisor's Ivory Tower, caring for
the well-being of one's fellow Scientologists is done by enforcing the
application of the usual for the preclear. The C/S is the one who
~makes~ auditing be done correctly. And ~that~ is caring.


¤Superficial Actions¤


    In the late 1960s there was a growing cultural disinclination to do
things thoroughly.

    "Fast, quick results" was interpreted as seconds or minutes. In old
psychotherapy as practiced in the 19th century it required ~one year~ of
weekly consultation to see if anything could be done about a case and
~four more years~ to produce a meager superficial result. Compared to
that two or three hundred hours of processing was nothing.

    As we began to dominate this field in terms of persons handled and
results obtained, psychiatry invented "instant psychiatry" by which no
result was gotten in no time.

    ~Speed~ became the primary consideration of the culture. Jet planes,
fast cars "saved time." But an old Chinese, when told by a driver that
he had saved four minutes in speeding back from town asked "What are you
going to do with the four minutes?"

    Time itself is a basis of aberration. Dropping time out is the
consideration of factory managers of production lines as "the faster
something can be made the more you have of it." But look at this again.
Something can be done so fast it isn't done at all! The difference
between a very fine camera and a cheap one is speed of manufacture.
Cheap cameras don't get their parts carefully machined or matched--they
don't fit together--they break, cease to work. A fine gun can be told by
the lack of tool marks on the hidden places. A cheap gun's inner bolt is
a mess of scars. It isn't smooth in operation. It didn't take much time
to make but it also jams and freezes up when you try to use it. Maybe
you've heard of "hotter than a two dollar pistol." A two dollar pistol
is "hot" because it's so quickie-made it usually blows up and blows off
a hand.

    There is a point where ~speed~ is simply a cover for a cheap
worthless product.

                THE IVORY TOWER 605

    Let us take a filthy room. A lazy housekeeper comes in and sweeps a
few bits of dust under the carpet, leaves soot all over the windows and
garbage on the mantle and says it's clean. Somebody else not afraid of
work spends an hour at it and leaves a really clean room.

    A short pc program is economically and efficiently for the birds.

    In the first place a C/S has to know the extent of his technology
well to be able to think up light processes in quantity.

    If one heard a C/S say "But I don't have time to spend an hour doing
a long program for the pc" one is listening to something peculiar. If
one spent an hour or two doing up a real long twenty-action program for
the pc, then for the next twenty C/Ses it takes only a few minutes to
look over the session and order the next action on the list. If one had
no program one would have to study the ~folder~ each time. One actually
saves C/S time by doing ~long~ programs.

    ~Quickie results are lazy and dishonest~.

    Honest grades and time spent in C/Sing and in auditing to obtain
them add up to success for the individual, the church, its field, the
country and the planet.

    The ~time~ it takes to process somebody is how long it takes to get
~each~ single result available. It is not how slowly or quickly it is
done. A book is not a good book if it takes seven years to write. And a
bad book isn't always written in two weeks. It takes as long to write a
good book as you get a good book. The ~result~ is the result and ~time
is just an entered arbitrary~.

    There ~is~ time. If anyone looked over his area he would be able to
throw out the time-wasting actions if it comes to that.

    "Look. I'm the C/S, the Director of Processing and have to audit
three . . ."

    That's a statement that the job has already been done so badly that
no persons show up to take over the extra hats! And the no-result
programs cripple the economics and that becomes no help.

    When there are sick people on a list one doesn't just "give a
Dianetic assist" and send to a doctor and write them off.

                606 BOOK THREE

    If one knows his technology, there was a ~reason~ the person got
sick. One also knows a sick person goes into overwhelm easily.

    One can do a touch assist, a contact assist, rudiments on the
accident, rudiments before the accident, full Dianetic assist, medical
treatment, assessment for area of illness, more Dianetics, rudiments on
area.

    That's not a program. It's just a helter-skelter list of a ~lot~ of
things to do. It would not greatly matter what order they were done in
but lighter actions should be the earlier.

    Now if a C/S or an auditor has a magical complex, he expects ~one~
process to run a person from zero to OT and in ~one~ minute.

    The missing knowledge is "gradient scales." Stairs and ladders have
steps and rungs. It takes ~time~ to climb a tower.

    The magical complex thinks of processes as incantations or charms. A
person C/Sing would always be trying to find ~the~ process the pc should
be run on. The think is that ~the~ process, once discovered would take
no time at all and the pc would magically become well!

    Pardon me, but that's pure goofiness.

    And it would set the C/S up for constant ~failure~.

    One sees such a person scrambling through processes, trying to guess
"which one which one which one. Oh there's one! Now we run it for three
minutes on the pc. Oh dear. It didn't work. He isn't well. Let's see
what's here still. Scramble, scramble. Oh, here's one. This green paper
is probably the right color. Auditor! Run this on the pc. Oh dear, it
didn't work. He isn't well yet. So! We will take these five major
processes and run them all in one session and add six grades. Do that!
Do it! It's a desperate situation. Oh dear, the pc blew. Well, I guess
the subject doesn't work or I'm a failure . . ."

    That is ~not~ how one should C/S.

    If a workman was supposed to cure an ox hide and was told salt would
do it and he had a magical complex, what whould he do? Well, he might
take a small salt shaker and sprinkle the corner of the hide (thinking
the right thought) and find that the hide rotted in a few days. He could
then conclude salt didn't cure ox hides. If someone kept

                THE IVORY TOWER 607

hammering at him to cure ox hides with salt and he kept sprinkling the
corner (knowing it wouldn't work) he'd get a very odd idea about his
orders. But who would suspect that this workman thought it was magic! An
honest rubbing of salt all over and into the ox hide is the meaning of
"salt will cure ox hides"!

    But that would take work. It would take ~time~! It would have to be
honestly and thoroughly done. But one would have cured ox hides and
gotten shoes and a profit and pay and everything for one had a
~product~.

    Magical thought in auditing isn't likely to give anyone a product of
really able people!

    Processes can be short-cut as well as programs.

    Take Dianetics. Dianetics can be chopped "to save ~time~." First
feeble flutter of an F/N, no cognition, no VGIs, auditor barking "Did it
erase? Did it erase?" Final result, no real gain. There goes the
subject. Half an hour to run the chain, no extra thirty seconds for the
real F/N, the cognition the VGIs.

    ~So one wastes a result for the sake of saved time~.

    It is a symptom of the age that there is no time. But "omitted time"
is a basic insanity.

    That a body lives only about 70 years puts an awful limit on Man.

    Man's empires endure at most only about 300 years if that.

    Seventy years is not enough time to make a real career and 300 years
is not enough time to even groove in a civil service.

    Man pays for it with poor lives and rotten governments.

    But it doesn't take 70 years or 300 years to process a pc. A year
maybe up to ~homo novis~. A few years to OT. Even traveling it casually
slow.

    Twenty-five hours to repair someone's life and 50 to 100 hours to
get him up to no somatics with Dianetics is pretty satisfactorily fast.

    What does this take? A week to repair. Two to four weeks for full
Dianetics. At 25 hours a week. That's very little.

                608 BOOK THREE

    And it's enough to tell him to get trained so he can have all he
wants.

    When speed is the consideration, not results, you get a very cheap
camera or car. And you can expect it to fall apart very soon. You also
get a cheap reputation.

    We are in the Leica and Cadillac and Rolls Royce product class
without trying.

    We've learned all this the hard way. So let's not let it go
unheeded.

    The place to handle the situation is with C/Sing.

    And to gain the cooperation of C/Ses to make results real results by
insisting that speed is the fast road to poverty in the long run.

    If the C/S burden is too heavy, start pushing training. Then you'll
get help.

    Honest C/Sing gives an honest result.

    It takes as long to correct a case as it takes. It takes as long to
make a person well as it takes. It takes as long to get a real lasting
grade result as it takes.

    ~There are no considerations which forgive any result that is not
thorough and honest for every program or grade~.


¤"Quickie" Defined¤


    The reason an auditor can say he doesn't "quickie a rundown" (and
none ever say they do) is because he has no definition for the word
~quickie~.

    The word has been used to designate rundowns that were not
completely and fully done.

    It is not a slang word.

    In the dictionary you will find "~Quickie~ also quicky: something
done or made in a hurry. Also: a hurriedly planned and executed program
(as of studies)."

    What makes a quickie "completion" quickie?

    Is it length of time? Not necessarily.

    Is it fewness of processes? Not necessarily.

    To define ~complete~ gives us the reverse of quickie.

    ~Complete~: To make whole, entire or perfect; end after satisfying
all demands or requirements." A completion is "the act or action of
completing, becoming complete or making complete."

                THE IVORY TOWER 609

    So "completing" something is not a loose term. It means an exact
thing. "End after satisfying all demands or requirements" does not mean
"doing as little as possible" or "doing what one can call complete
without being detected."

    Anything that does not fully satisfy all requirements is ~quickie~.

    So "quickie" really means "omitting actions for whatever reason that
would satisfy all demands or requirements and doing something less than
could be achieved."

    In short, quickie is not doing all the steps and actions that could
be done to make a perfect whole.

    Standard auditing actions required for ages that auditors cleared
each word of each command. Yet when they went quickie they dropped this.
When this was dropped, ~gains on 75% of all pcs lessened or vanished~.
We are right now achieving spectacular wins on pcs just by clearing up
commands and words on all lists. We are finding that these pcs did not
recover and ~never before had been in session~ even though previously
"audited" hundreds of hours.

    By omitting an essential action of clearing commands, processing did
not work because the pc never understood the auditing commands!

    So quickie action did not save any time, did it? It wasted hundreds
of hours!

    Essentially quickie tech is simply ~dishonest~. Auditors who do it
have their own ethics out in some way.

    To be sure their confront is down.

    There are numerous remedies for the quickie impulse. Plain simple
TR-0 is a standard remedy. TR-0 properly done and completed, itself
usually cures it.

    Wherever quickie tendencies or false stats (the quickest quickie
possible) show up, the above had better be gotten into full use fast.

    It is doubtful if one could count the number of uses to which
auditing can be placed to help livingness and improve the health,
ability and outlook of a person.

    The trend now is to apply auditing to special requirements. But this
is not a new trend--it is merely unknown. Emphasis on completed grades
tended to drive out of sight the real uses of auditing.

                610 BOOK THREE

    Naturally one wants his Dianetic triples and his Scientology
triples. But to say this is the end of auditing is silly.

    In the pursuit of the "new" one forgets the successful old. There
are thousands of processes, all valid, if run only to F/N.

    Dianetic auditing particularly lends itself to specific situations.
For instance, a pregnant woman should be audited on emotions and
somatics relating to birth or babies before delivery. We used to simply
audit the girl's own birth and any past births (R3R). Then immediately
after delivery the engram is run out. Handling pregnancy in this fashion
has the woman up and about in three days and in fine condition. This
prevents utterly the extreme of "postpartum psychosis" as mental upset
due to delivery is called. It prevents any upset with the husband or
child. It prevents physical after-effects. In short, it ~should~ be
done.

    People who have been ill for some time often only get well because
they are audited.

    After any illness the person should be audited.

    After accidents and medical care people should be audited.

    Almost any human situation containing pain or misemotion should be
handled by auditing.

    In the field of ability, auditing is king. The inability to study or
to work or even to live can be handled in many ways. The simple action
of listing the somatics, emotions and attitudes of the unwanted
condition and running them R3R triple relieves them.

    Auditing is for ~use~.

    Auditing ~is~ the answer to human disability and travail. It can
make life worth living.

    Auditing is not a limited action, "He's had his triples so you can't
do anything" is about as limited a view as you can get.

    A case supervisor should be fully aware of what auditing can do and
insist that it gets done.

    There is no limit to what good auditing can do. That is the first
thing one should learn about it.

                THE IVORY TOWER 611


¤Nulling and F/Ning Prepared Lists¤


    A prepared list is one which is used to correct cases. There are
many of these. Notable amongst them is the L3RD.

    Now and then you get the extreme oddity of a list selected to
exactly remedy the case not reading but not F/Ning.

    Of course this might happen if the list did not apply to the case
(such as an OT prepared list being used on a Dianetic pc, heaven
forbid). In the case of lists to correct Dianetics, it is nearly
impossible for this situation to occur.

    A C/S will very often see that the auditor has assessed the list on
the pc, has gotten no reads, and the list did not F/N.

    A "reasonable" C/S (heaven forbid) lets this go by.

    Yet he has before him first class evidence that the auditor

    1. Has out-TRs in general

    2. Has no impingement whatever with TR-1

    3. Is placing his meter in the wrong position in the auditing
session so that he cannot see it, the pc and his worksheet

    4. That the auditor's eyesight is bad.

    One or more of these conditions certainly exist.

    To do nothing about it is to ask for catastrophe after catastrophe
with pcs and to have one's confidence in one's own C/Sing deteriorate
badly.

    An amazing number of auditors cannot make a prepared list read for
one of the above reasons.

    Putting in "suppress," "invalidation," or "misunderstood words" on
the list will either get a read or the list will F/N.

    The moral of this is that prepared lists that do not read F/N. When
prepared lists that do not read do not F/N or when the auditor cannot
get a prepared list to F/N, serious auditing errors are present which
will defeat a C/S.

    In the interest of obtaining results and being merciful on pcs, the
wise C/S never lets this situation go by without finding what it is all
about.

                612 BOOK THREE


¤Dianetic Errors¤


    There are several corny stunts that can occur in Dianetics, any of
which will add up to no F/N.

    1. Trying to run an item that didn't read on being given or when
being called. As the chain is not charged it will be hard, if not
impossible, to run. Blowdown (BD) items are of course the very best and
almost always erase very easily.

    2. Starting a new session with a new item with the TA way, way up.
To play it safe in Dianetic auditing (it can be handled in Scientology)
the Dianetic auditor who starts a session and a new action at the same
time with the TA high is very foolish. It may not be high on what the
auditor is now newly trying to run. The correct action is not to start
the session. Just end off with no auditing done. When the TA has settled
down on another day (three days to ten days later) begin your new
action. The pc is ill or is having trouble in life. If you were running
a chain in the last session and continue it in the next, disregard the
high TA. A way to get around this is get some new items from the high TA
pc and take one that blows down well and you can probably bring it off.
Safest is don't audit a high TA pc unless to repair an unflat chain (or
to run Exteriorization Rundown). This rule is variable. But you should
know it is risky to audit a new item taken from an earlier list when the
pc comes into session with a high TA as it may not be high on what you
are about to run and so you may get no F/N. The only remedy is to get
new items and choose a BD one (or to turn the pc over to a Scientology
auditor to assess a high-low TA list and handle).

    3. Running a narrative item can lead to no F/N. (A narrative item
describes only one possible incident, i.e., "dropping an ironing board
on my foot" = no chain = possible no F/N.)

    4. Running a pc who has exteriorized in auditing (whose TA is now
high) on something other than an Exteriorization Rundown will produce a
high TA and no F/N in the session. After an Exteriorization Rundown has
been run anything can be run.

    5. Probably the ~worst~ blunder is failing to ask for ABCD again
when the pc says "It's erased," but the TA is

                THE IVORY TOWER 613

still high. This is really a corny error. TA 4.9. Pc says, "It's erased!
All blank now," and the auditor fails to ask ABCD once more. There is a
moment when the pc's ~not-is~ of the picture squeezes it into
invisibility. The mass of it is still there. It takes just one or two
more passes to get the BD and F/N. It's up to the auditor not to let the
pc go without that additional ABCD.

    Then the BD and F/N happened with cognition and VGIs. This error is
more common that one would think.

    6. Failure to ask for the earlier beginning will also cause a long
grind (ABCD over and over) and no F/N.

    7. Of course, not asking for an earlier incident mentioning the same
item will also cause a grind and no F/N. When the item isn't also
mentioned in the command, the pc can jump chains. And if the earlier
beginning is not asked for at all, of course there will be no F/N.

    8. Auditing a pc under protest will cause the TA to stay up and no
F/N.

    Forcing a pc to go on being audited when the pc is refusing or not
wishing to go on upsets the pc and his case and will often result in low
TA (below 2) and will give the pc a heavy loss.

    There is no excuse for it.

    It invalidates the pc's cause.

    The correct action is to either find out why he doesn't want to go
on or send the pc to a Scientology review.

    The skilled Dianetic auditor knows these things cold and does not
make these errors. Thus he gets his end of session F/N regularly and
gets an F/N at the examiner as well when the case has had a few
sessions.


¤F/N What You Ask or Program¤


    When an auditor asks one question but F/Ns something else it is
simply a version of Q and A.

    Example:

    Auditor: Do you have a problem?

    Pc: (ramble-ramble): I was thinking of last night's dinner.

    Auditor: That F/Ns.

                614 BOOK THREE

    Every few folders you pick up, you can find examples of this:

    The auditor is not trained not to Q and A.

    He is ~not~ getting answers to his questions.

    When the auditor starts something (such as a question or process) he
~must F/N~ what he started ~even though he did something else during it
and got an F/N on something else. He must F/N the original action~.

    The result can be:

    a. Missed withhold phenomena

    b. High or low TA an hour after the pc "F/Ned at examiner"

    c. A stalled case

    d. An undone program

    e. An unhandled pc

    f. Continual need for repair programs.

    To get this disease out of an area it requires that auditors go
through an anti-Q and A handling.

    C/Ses can also Q and A. They simply handle whatever the pc
originates to the examiner or auditor, over and over and on and on.

    The result is:

    A. Incomplete programs

    B. Tripled or quadrupled C/S effort as the case never seems to get
solved

    C. Loads of repair programs.

    Yet a C/S who does it will never look for it as ~the~ primary error
being committed.

    The remedy is to have the C/S do an anti-Q and A program.


¤The Primary Failure¤


    A C/S who cannot get a result on his pcs will find the most usual
biggest improvement by getting the offending auditors' ~assessing~
handled.

    We used to say that "the auditor's TRs were out" as the most
fundamental reason for no results.

    This is not specific enough.

    ~The most common reason for failed sessions is the inability of the
auditor to get reads on lists~.

                THE IVORY TOWER 615

    Time after time I have checked this back as the real reason.

    It became evident when one could take almost any "null" (no read)
list in a pc's folder, give it and the pc to an auditor who ~could~
assess and get nice reads on it with consequent gain.

    Example: Pc has a high TA. C/S orders a correction list. List is
null. Pc goes on having a high TA. C/S gets inventive, case crashes.
Another C/S and another auditor takes the ~same~ pc and the same list,
gets good reads, handles. Case flies again.

    What was wrong was:

    a. The auditor's TR-1 was terrible

    b. The auditor couldn't meter.

    One takes the above and gets these points fully checked on the
flunking auditor.

    The C/S gets the auditor's TR-1 corrected. In doing the latter one
may find a why for the out-TR-1 like a notion one must be soft-spoken to
stay in ARC or the auditor is imitating some other auditor whose TR-1 is
faulty.

    It takes correct metering and ~impingement~ to make a list read.

    If the auditor does not have these, then drug lists, Dianetic lists,
correction lists will all go for nothing.

    As the prepared list is the C/S's main tool for discovery and
correction, an auditor failure to get a list to respond or note it then
defeats the C/S completely.

    ~The error of an auditor being unable to get a list to read on a
meter is a primary cause of C/S failure~.

    To win, correct it!


¤Important, Auditing Speed¤


    Almost any failure you have ever had with an auditor or in auditing
came from auditor comm lags or errors.

    This is a vital datum. It came to light from applying the rule: ask
the pc what the auditor did after any failed session and get it
corrected in the auditor.

    SPEED is the main factor behind the mystery of a failed session.

                616 BOOK THREE

    In AUDITING pre-OTs, the speed the auditor must have is far greater
than that required to handle those just in off the street. This ~speed~
factor is the real REASON why pre-OTs were at first considered very hard
to audit on Dianetics.

    The better an auditor knows his TRs, his processes, his meter and
admin, the faster he can operate.

    If you train auditors only up to slow, comm-laggy handling of a
session you will get a lot of mysteriously "failed sessions," ending
with the TA high and the pc very low!

    A somewhat slow auditor auditing a new pc may be fast enough to get
away with it.

    Put him on a person whose Dianetics is finished and some grades in,
he begins to have a few "case failures."

    Now put him to auditing reviews or Dianetics on a pre-OT and all
sessions fail.

    The remedy is to speed the auditor up with the special Dianetic TRs
101, 102, 103 and 104.

    In assigning auditors you only dare assign fast ones to pre-OTs.

    Speed and accuracy then is the stress of all training and the lack
of it is the source of all auditing failures on pcs who are not severely
ill.

    Even the latter respond once their purely physical illness is
properly handled.

    The pre-OT in session normally moves much faster than a lower grade
pc. The auditor has to be about five times faster and must know his
auditing commands and technical procedures without any slightest flub in
application in order to keep up with the pre-OT and not distract him
from session.

    In the early stages of the development of Standard Dianetics it was
found that a small number of pcs did not want to be audited. Further
investigation revealed that each of these were in fact pre-OTs and each
had just had a session that was failed to some degree. With the
breakthrough in auditor training and the development of command drills,
there is now no difficulty in auditing fast

                THE IVORY TOWER 617

OT level pcs, there are no failed sessions, and there have been no
further instances of pre-OTs not wanting further auditing.

    It is essential at all training levels that the exact commands and
procedures be properly duplicated and that auditing on a doll and
bullbaited session training drills be well-emphasized, thoroughly
drilled and the student not be graduated until the supervisor and
examiner are certain that the student would never forget, fumble, or
give an incorrect command or use incorrect procedure despite any
distraction and could easily keep up with the pc no matter how fast the
pc, at the same time maintaing excellent TRs, adequate session admin,
and competent meter handling.


¤Auditor Assignment Policies¤


    One sometimes hears auditors complain, "Scientologists are harder to
audit than new pcs." We know the answer to this. It is auditor ~speed~.
When an auditor complains of this, he is revealing that he is a slow
auditor.

    Dianetics and Scientology (demonstrated by carefully controlled
tests) greatly speed up reaction time. They also increase IQ rapidly and
were the reason colleges came off their "IQs never change."

    As a person is audited he becomes quicker mentally, also he becomes
less comm-laggy. Also he is more familiar with technology and his own
case and is less afraid of himself and his "bank."

    In assigning auditors to pcs, if you do not pay attention to
comparable grade levels between auditors and pcs you will have failed
sessions.

    Therefore it is policy not to assign an auditor to a pc, whose grade
and class is less than that of the pc.

    PRECLEARS WHO HAVE STUDIED OR RUN THE OT III
MATERIALS MAY ONLY BE AUDITED BY AUDITORS WHO
ARE OT III OR ABOVE.

    This applies to Dianetics and Scientology auditing.

    You can wreck a non-OT III Dianetic auditor by assigning him or her
to a pc who has run the OT III materials. SO DON'T DO IT.

                618 BOOK THREE

    Any auditor who is not OT III who is assigned to a pc who has
studied or audited OT III must refuse to audit that pc.

    This rule is invariable. Don't violate it.

    ONLY AUDITORS WHO ARE OT III OR ABOVE
MAY AUDIT PRECLEARS WHO HAVE STUDIED
OR RUN THE OT III MATERIALS.

    Further, a good auditor deserves a good auditor. To assign a new
student to audit a skilled and practiced veteran auditor of excellent
auditing record is suppressive. The new student or new graduate would
proabaly be intimidated just at the thought of auditing someone who is
far more expert, and this would magnify his flubs and comm lags.

    Therefore assign only good proven auditors to good auditors.

    It is a suppressive act to assign a new or poor auditor to an
auditor who has proven he can attain uniformly good results.

    Slow auditors will be found successful auditing slow auditors.

    This does not excuse not drilling slow auditors up to becoming,
fast, precision auditors.

    Good auditors are valuable. They should be safeguarded, given favors
and even pampered.

    Slow auditors should be drilled and given slow (new) pcs only until
their own case gain brings them, with their drills, higher case gain and
thus higher speed.

    We are now in the era of 100 percent auditing success ~and~ 100
percent auditor training. If sessions are flubbed, the technology was
not applied or there were flagrant auditor errors. Handle the auditor
and then you have the standard invariable 100 percent.


¤Non F/N Cases¤


    When cases do not bring an F/N VGIs to the examiner, it is the
signal to study the whole case anew and find the bug or bugs that keep
it from running and get them handled.

                THE IVORY TOWER 619

    Recently I took over a whole series of these non-F/N VGIs at
examiner cases and very, very carefully studied each one. ~In every
examiner non-F/N case I found flagrant out-tech in (a) the programming,
(b) the C/Sing AND (c) the auditing~. All three outnesses existed.

    These cases were taken as ~all~ the non-F/N exam reports on a line
containing hundreds of folders and over 600 well-done hours a week. So
you can see that these errors had been missed by expert C/Ses and
auditors. The errors were missed because ~hope~ was being used instead
of study.

    There was a ~hope~ that just routine C/Ses and auditing would work
it out eventually.

    The fact of non-F/N at examiner was not given sufficient importance.

    The fact is that many who F/Ned at the examiner had small flaws in
them yet still got by.

    The exam non-F/N indicates ~flagrant out tech~ in the programming
~and~ the C/Sing ~and~ the auditing. That's what it takes.

    After a bug is found and corrected the case still may not F/N at the
examiner for a while. But after that while is passed the failure to give
the examiner an F/N means ~another~ bug and more study.

    There is always a bug, not necessarily current, often very old in
these exam non-F/N cases. There are sometimes two or three bugs.

    The answer is ~not~ to go on C/Sing and hope.

    The answer ~is~, study and find the bug.

    Cases run on triples after a long list of singles is a type of bug.

    Cases exteriorizing (TA high) then getting no Interiorization
Rundown is another bug.

    Cases given false reads or already run withholds, cases who don't
tell their cognitions, cases who were on drugs but drugs were never run,
cases that rock-slammed but no crime found, cases that are always sad or
tired . . . well, these types of cases are the usual bugged cases. But
even they sometimes F/N if only to roller coaster* up and down.

    The general rule of going back to where the case was running well
and coming forward still holds.

                620 BOOK THREE

    Every case I examined had a big bug. Flagrant god-awful overruns,
three major programs begun, each incomplete, engram after engram botched
and run to high TA then walked off from. The errors were real! They bad
been sitting there for some time unnoticed. Session after session
mounting up into piles of wasted auditing.

    Sick pcs are another indicator. Pc F/Ns at examiner, then reports
sick. Look behind it and you find some wild program, C/S and auditing
error.

    So the answer is to ~study the case~.

    Get a total FES done if one has never been done. Get a current FES
done or do it yourself.

    Then examine the programs and the FESes and folder summaries and
suddenly you'll find it.

    Sometimes the errors are silly. A bogged Dianetic case had gotten
tons of Class VI repair. The C/S, a Class VIII, had never realized
Dianetic C/Sing is its own brand of C/Sing. He didn't shift gears to
Dianetic C/Sing when C/Sing Dianetics sessions. The auditor way back had
not known that when the pc originates "It's erased" and the TA remains
high, his correct action is one more ABCD. This C/S had then tried Class
VI remedies instead of telling the auditor "Flatten or rehab the last
chain."

    When the chains left unflat were rehabbed all was suddenly well.

    The stable datum is ~cases moderately well-programmed, C/Sed and
audited run well~.

    So cases that don't run well (unchanging exam, natter,* comment,
non-F/N) have a ~big~ error in programming C/Sing and auditing.

    Look well and you will find it. And if that isn't it, there was
another to be found as well.

    If you can't find the folder or data in it you should take every
imaginable measure to acquire more data. D of P interviews, telexes to
his last church and telegrams to his auditors. But get data from
somewhere somehow.

    An auditor or C/S who really knows his theory and has a good grasp
of practical application knows the right way. From that he can easily
see how things are wrong.

                THE IVORY TOWER 621

    An ounce of case study is worth ten pounds of wasted sessions.


¤Getting the F/N to Examiner¤


    If after an F/N session end the pc's TA goes up at the examiner, the
pc is afflicted with unflat engram chains.

    All high TAs depend on unflat or restimulated engram chains.

    TAs go high on overrun because the overrun restimulates engram
chains not yet run.

    Engram (or secondary or lock) chains can be keyed-out. This does not
mean that they stay ~out~. In a few minutes or hours or days or years
they can key back in.

    A pc will also ~de~stimulate in from three to ten days usually. This
means be "settles out." Thus a pc can be overrun into new engram chains
(by life or an auditor), TA goes up, three to ten days later the TA
comes down.

    When a pc is audited to F/N VGIs and then a few minutes later has a
high TA the usual reasons are:

    1. Has had his communication chopped or full Dianetic end phenomena
not reached or

    2. Has been run on an unreading item or subject or

    3. Is overwhelmed or

    4. Has a lot of engrams keying-in or

    5. Has been run in the past without full erasure of engrams or
attaining end phenomena

    6. Lists badly done or other misauditing causes a pc to feel bad and
key-in chains, also

    7. A pc can be audited when too tired or too late at night.

    The solution to any of these is easy: on (1) always see that the pc
attains full EP, particularly on engram chains. On (2) make auditors
check for read on Dianetic items before running them. On (3) see also
(2) and get the pc a proper program. On (4) repair or isolate pc so his
PT isn't so ferocious looking. Let him change his environment and then
audit him or (5) look into his folder to see who audited him on so many
chains with no real erasure or EP. On (6) you

                622 BOOK THREE

use repair lists (like L3RD and other usual actions). On (7) you make
the pc get some rest and if he can't make him go for a walk away until
he is tired and ~then~ walk back and get some sleep.

    All these really add up to keyed-in or unflat engram chains. Whether
the pc can handle them depends on repair and the usual.

    Of all these the past auditing without attaining EP on engram chains
(whether done in Dianetics or Scientology) is a usual reason for a much
audited pc to have a high TA.

    The answers to any high TA that won't come down and to any pc who
continually arrives at examiner after an F/N VGI session end with his TA
~up~ are:

    A. Faulty auditing not letting pc go to full Dianetic EP when
running engrams

    B. A false auditing report (PR-type report meaning promoting instead
of auditing)

    C. Too many engram chains in past restimulation by life or auditing.

    ~Any~ correct standard Dianetic auditing will eventually handle. But
it is usual to do a ~picture remedy~ (covered later in this chapter
under Dianetic Remedies).

    A pc who has a ~chronic somatic~ would get programmed like this:

    I. Repair program until pc feeling better.

    II. Picture remedy with all reading and interest items Dianetic
triple to full Dianetic EP.

    III. Health form--with all reading and interest items Dianetic
triple to full Dianetic EP.

    IV. Somatics of the area with all reading and interest items
Dianetic triple to full Dianetic EP.

    V. Run the engram chain of the incident (operation, accident, etc.,)
he believes caused it, R3R triple.

    VI. Health form to F/N on the health form itself and attest full
Dianetic result as per class chart.

    That's maybe 50 hours, all done in Dianetic triples, of course, in
Steps II to VI.

    Pcs with high TAs feel ill and get ill.

                THE IVORY TOWER 623

    No use to elaborate on that. It's just a fact and is ~the~ fact
about pcs who get ill. So maybe you see why this is important!

    Pcs with low TAs are more or less in apathy.

    If it F/N VGIs at session end and is low at Examiner (like 1.9 OR if
went low in session and didn't F/N), then the pc is:

    a. overwhelmed and needs auditing and life repair

    b. can have been run on a flat or unreading item that invalidated
his former win.

    Example: Pc listed on an unreading list; few sessions later worrying
about it and coming to exam with low TA. Repair is the answer. Low TA
pcs need a life repair also.


¤Pressure Somatics and Dianetics¤


    Pressure somatics from a health form or a Dianetic list, e.g.,
pressure on the chest, pressure arount the head, should be taken up in a
Dianetic session with ~caution~ as the pc can often bog on the chain and
no erasure is obtained.

    Case supervisors can okay pressure somatics to be run in Dianetics
when the pc runs well and there is a proven Dianetic auditor available.
Otherwise treat pressure somatics with caution as pcs can have trouble
locating the basic incident on the chain and getting an erasure.

    Any difficulty with a pressure somatic item in Dianetics is handled
with an L3RD, particularly question number 50.


¤TRs Rules¤


    With the use of TRs on auditors and students, a rule must be laid
down:

    ~A person on a TR course or in progress on a TR cycle may not also
be audited~.

    ~While working on TRs and until they are passed, do not accept
auditing~.

    The reason for these rules lie in the major C/S rules:

    ~Do not begin new programs to end old~.

                624 BOOK THREE

    ~Do not start a new action before completing the existing one~.

    And the auditor rule:

    ~Obtain an F/N before starting the next C/S action. If unable to do
so, never begin the next C/S action but end session and return the
folder to the C/S~.

    The surest way in the world to bog a case is to:

    1. Begin a new process without obtaining an F/N on the one just run

    2. Begin a major action without completing the old one

    3. Begin a major action without setting up a case with rudiments and
F/Ns

    4. Begin a new program without completing the old one

    5. Start several programs without finishing any

    6. Enter a new major action into a case already in progress on
another incomplete major action.

    I have seen a case on as many as ~five~ major actions with none
complete. And when I see this the first thing I take up is the first
unflat incomplete program and get it finished, then the next, then the
next. The case comes out all smooth.

    Example: Case is on but not complete on Dianetic auditing. Switched
to grades. Incomplete on grades, gets auditor program. Incomplete on
that, shifted to upper level Scientology processing.

    The only apparent exception is a repair. A case can be repaired if
bogged ~providing the original action is rehabbed if overrun or
completed to EP~.

    A program may reach EP before the ~written-up~ program is completed.

    Thus a process completion is defined as the ~end phenomena~ of the
process. A program is complete when the ~end phenomena~ of the program
is attained.

    Any course or program containing TRs 0-4, 6-9 is a major program in
itself. It produces case gain--if run right--and has an end phenomenon.

    Further, by actual experience when a person is on a real (not a
patty-cake and weak) TR course and is also being audited at the same
time, the C/S and auditor if they don't know the person is also on TRs
can be utterly baffled and

                THE IVORY TOWER 625

worried as the case does not run right. "What did I do?" "What C/S was
wrong?" "Look, his TA is high." "Now it's low." "Last session he . . ."
And the C/S and auditor engage in efforts to handle the odd case
behavior. But the person, unknown to them, was ~also~ on a real TR
course and his case was changing!

    You can also run into this same oddity with a mystic who "bathes the
body in light" every night or a wife whose husband audits her between
HGC* (Hubbard Guidance Centers) sessions or a self-auditor.

    The principle is the same. The C/S and auditor are going down
Well-being Street and hidden trucks keep dashing out of alleys and
running into the pc.

    The reason auditing should be done in intensive packages, not one
hour a week or a session a month lies in the fact that ~life~ can run a
new action in on a pc.

    It's a great way to waste auditing to let a pc have a session once a
week. You can't even keep his rudiments in if he lives in any
confusions.

    So nothing is done for the ~case~, all the auditing goes to handle
the life interjections!

    A case runs on cycles of actions. This is true in the auditing comm
cycle. It is true in a process cycle. It is true in a program cycle.

    New things being crossed into old incomplete things make a sort of
ARC break situation like a cut comm cycle.

    No case gain can be created by lack of a comm cycle in an auditor,
lack of an action cycle in processes or messing up a program cycle.

    Further the fellow who doesn't reach the EP of a ~course~ is likely
never to use that material or be faulty with the subject.

    Usual Dianetics and Scientology study courses give case gain. One
can carry on with auditing parallel to them. But still expect a case to
change a bit by study and baffle a C/S once in a while.

    But a ~real~ TR course produces changes up and down and up that are
not possible to ~also~ audit around. So they don't mix.

                626 BOOK THREE


¤Don't Force a Pc¤


    Don't force a pc who is ill. The whole intention when auditing a pc
who is sick is making him well.

    If overts or missed withholds don't read, even though he is
nattering, then they are not available to be run right then.

    A preclear who is not well cannot look, his havingness is down and
he must be handled permissively-- ~always~.

    The mechanism of ~release~ must be well-understood to make an ill
person well. They plunge down the track madly on any excuse. They
require much lighter auditing than they stand up to when well.


¤Dianetic C/Ses¤


    Dianetic sessions often go five or even eight hours.

    One tries to do all the flows of an item in one session.


¤Unresolved Pains¤


    It occasionally happens that a pc's certain pain does not resolve on
Dianetics.

    There are two reasons for this:

    1. ~Not enough auditing on enough chains~.

    Sooner or later the exact small piece of an engram "already run"
shows up on another chain later.

    Example: Pain in an area of an operation occurs now and then again
weeks, months or years after the operation has been run out as an
engram. Sooner or later just on general auditing the missing bit of the
operation shows up, and blows. Voila! Pain gone forever.

    This is peculiar especially to abdominal operations like an
appendectomy. The operation was run out. The scar stays puffy. The pc is
occasionally ill from it. Pc's conclusion is that Dianetics hasn't
worked on it. More auditing on other somatics (just general Dianetics)
is given. One day the remaining bit of the operation, hidden from view,
apparently erased, shows up, and blows. Pc is now fine.

    A reason for this is "overburden" in that the incident was too
charged in one place to be confronted. As the whole

                THE IVORY TOWER 627

case is unburdened, confront comes up. The piece that was missing (and
giving the pain) blows.

    There is no way of forcing it. In fact it would be fatal to try.

    The other reason for it is that the missing bit causing the pain is
a different somatic like "a chest compression." This bit of the
operation had another basic than the one run.

    The answer to a persistent or recurring somatic in an injured area
is always more Dianetic auditing of the standard type, just addressed to
the bank not the special somatic. Just keep doing the usual and one day
it all straightens out.

    2. ~Sympathetic nervous system pains~.

    There are two sides to the body. As you learn in touch assists, if
the right hand is injured you include also the left hand.

    Body nerves conduct pain. The two sides of the body interlock. Pain
gets stopped in the nerves.

    If the right elbow is hurt the ~left~ elbow will have echoed the
pain.

    Example, you find a pc with a pain in the left elbow. You try to
audit a left elbow chain. It doesn't fully resolve.

    If you ran injuries to the ~right~ elbow, suddenly there's a somatic
going through the left elbow! It gets well.

    This is the sympathetic nervous system. The right ear injured, also
gets echoed with a somatic in the left ear. You audit the right ear
only. Pc comes up with a sore left ear!

    You can actually direct a pc's attention to it (nonstandard but a
research technique) and he can find where the uninjured ear echoed the
injured ear.

    Where you can't fully repair a crippled left leg, don't be surprised
to find it was the ~right~ leg that was hurt.

    You audit the ~left~ leg somatic in vain. If you do, start auditing
somatics in the ~opposite side of the body~.

    The mystery of toothache is resolved in both 1 and 2 above,
especially 2.

    The pain is concentrated on the left upper molar. You audit it in
vain. Toothache persists.

    Look at the pc's mouth. Has the ~right~ upper molar ever been pulled
or injured? Yes. That's how the ~left~ molar began

                628 BOOK THREE

to decay. The right upper molar was pulled. The pain (especially under
the painkiller on the right side only) backed up and stopped on the
opposite side. Eventually the left upper molar, under that stress, a
year or ten later, caves in and aches.

    Mysterious as it wasn't injured. Mysterious as the opposite molar is
long gone, doesn't hurt anymore.

    When a toothache does not resolve in auditing, audit the opposite
tooth on the other side. You can actually do it by count of teeth.

    It's sort of auditing a no-somatic.

    Pc in misery with right upper molar. No pain on left side. Audit an
injury he had on the left side (it will read on the meter also). Voila!
The toothache that wouldn't go away eases up!

    The fellow who has the exact opposite teeth pulled (upper-right
wisdom, upper-left wisdom) is in for it as there is a constant cross
play. Makes the mouth odd and pressury. Both sides are reacting to the
other side!

    Dentists often note the strange pressure, "bursting feelings" a
patient has when a tooth "needs pulling." This is the stress in the
nerves from an injury which occurred on the opposite side!

    An auditor can audit a right side tooth in vain unless he knows
enough to audit ~the other side~.

    For a pc with a toothache, on the ~right~ side, you can list for
feelings on the ~left~ side of the mouth and get "numbness," "no
feeling," etc. Audit ~that~ list and suddenly magically the toothache on
the opposite side not being audited eases up.

    As toothacbes sometimes give a Dianetic auditor a failure, he should
know about the sympathetic factor as above. The failure becomes a
success.


¤Somatics and OTs¤


    If a preclear or pre-OT has physical difficulties, bad perception
trouble, illness or physical disability ~he has no business getting
grades, power,* clearing or OT levels~.

    ~He needs Dianetics~.

                THE IVORY TOWER 629

    Once ~that~ is completely understood it will end any and all
"failures."

    Using Scientology auditing and grades to handle common Dianetic
problems is to audit a pc over a present time problem.

    The big PTP a thetan has is his body.

    A thetan is a thetan and he wants spiritual freedom and ability.

    A body is a body.

    Scientology = thetan rehabilitation.

    Dianetics = body improvement.

    All Dianeticists and Scientologists, all pcs and pre-OTs should be
informed of this.

    Using Scientology to help the body and Dianetics to help the thetan
is a mixture of practices and the misuse of both.

    Dianetic processing uses a meter, R3R, assists and TRs. It also uses
an understanding of what the subject is for. It erases locks,
secondaries and engrams or their chains. That's exactly what it does and
what is done with it. The mental image picture is the source of
continued pain, somatics, bad perception or illness. This subject has to
be ~done~, actually ~used~. These data in this paragraph are the ~total~
essentials of Dianetics. It is taught, case supervised and used as
Dianetics.

    The thetan, scales, ARC, exteriorization, ability, freedom, the
grades, clearing, and OT levels are the sole province of Scientology.

    Don't overlap and intermingle the two subjects.

    Cleanly separate the two and so obtain enormously increased case
gains.


¤The Pc Who Has Something That Hasn't Been Handled¤


    When a person who came into Dianetics to get something handled
complains in some way that it hasn't been handled you find out what it
is, get it stated in the form of an assessable item, then the case
supervisor orders the chosen version be run by R3R to erasure of chain.

    If a person tells the examiner he has never had handled what he came
into Dianetics, or even medicine to handle, the examiner finds out what
it is, (e.g. "My feet." What about

                630 BOOK THREE

your feet? "Painful feet.") then sends the examiner's report to the C/S
with the pc folder.

    If the pc indicates in session that there is something he never had
handled the auditor notes the fact and sends to the C/S after completing
the session he is currently running. The C/S may instruct the examiner
to get more specific data from the pc if the statement was too
generalized.


¤Dianetic List Errors¤


    It ~can~ happen that a Dianetic list of somatics, pains, emotions
and attitudes can act as a list under the meaning of the Scientology
laws of listing and nulling.

    The most violent session ARC breaks occur because of list errors
under the Scientology meaning of listing and nulling. Other session ARC
breaks even under withholds are not as violent as those occurring
because of listing errors.

    Therefore when a violent or even a "total-apathy won't answer"
session upset has occurred in Dianetics, one must suspect that the
preclear is reacting under the Scientology laws of listing and nulling
and that he conceives such an error to have been made.

    The repair action is to send the pc to a Scientology review to
assess the prepared list which corrects listing errors. This is L4BR.

    It is used "On Dianetics lists . . ." as the start of each of its
questions when employed for this purpose.

    When a pc has not done well on Dianetics and when no other reason
can be found the case supervisor should suspect some listing error and
order an L4BR to be done "On Dianetic lists . . ." at the start of each
question.

    ~All~ Dianetic lists can be carried to an item that blows down and
F/Ns.

    This does not mean the item found is now wholly clean. Even though
it F/Ned it can be run by recall, by secondaries and by engrams. It is
usually run by engrams, triples, R3R.

    A case supervisor must be alert to the fact that:

    a. Extreme upsets and deep apathies are almost always list errors

                THE IVORY TOWER 631

    b. That a Dianetic list can be conceived to be a formal list and can
behave that way

    c. L4BR is the correction list used in such cases (done by a
Scientology auditor).

    Very few Dianetic lists behave this way but when they do they must
be handled as above.


¤Dianetic Remedies¤


    A. Past Life Remedy

    There are three ways of getting a pc to run past track incidents in
Dianetics.

    1. For a pc that does not run incidents or somatic chains back to
basic, in past lives, you would list:

    "What attitudes would make one unwilling to go earlier than this
life?"

    You get the best reading item, check for interest and run the item
by R3R. You reassess, check for interest and R3R.

    Continue to reassess (or add to the list) until the list is
exhausted.

    Repeat these steps listing (separately and in this order) for
emotions, sensations, and pains that "would make one unwilling to go
earlier than this life."

    Somewhere along the line, the pc will go earlier than this life, and
that is the result of this first action. (Make sure, however, that any
remaining reading items are run--if they have pc interest.)

    2. Children. Some children respond positively and successfully to
the above remedy. However, children are very burdened cases. They speak
of "remembering" all the time. They say they can't go backtrack "because
they don't remember." They don't seem to take it from pictures. Contrary
to psychology theories, children are in very rough case shape, nervous,
frightened, griefy, etc. They are stuck in the books and movies they
see. They run very shallow, which means they F/N too easily and they run
incidents very close to present time.

    The easiest way to unburden cases is by:

    a. Contact processes (CCHs, etc.)

    b. Recall.

                632 BOOK THREE

    3. Children again. There exists also a category of children that
have a fear of going into past lives. Even though they had been run on
the above remedies, they still did not make it.

    You would list that type of pc as follows:

    "What attitudes would make you not want to look at earlier lives?"

    You get the best reading item, check for interest and run R3R on
that item.

    Reassess. Get the next best reading item, check for interest and run
R3R. Continue until you have exhausted the list. (Add to the list if
necessary.) Then repeat this procedure listing (separately and in this
order) emotions, sensations, and pains that "would make you not want to
look at earlier lives."

    Somewhere along the handling of the list (or lists) made, the pc
will look at pictures that he doesn't recognize easily, can't date, etc.
The Dianetic auditor handles those inabilities as per standard Dianetic
procedure, and off you go, with a pc looking at pictures of earlier
lives, cogniting and winning and F/Ning on erasure of incidents with
VGIs! (Make sure, however, that any remaining reading items are run--if
they have pc interest.)

    B. The Anaten Pc, Dopes Off in Session, High TA.

    The handling of the pcs or pre-OTs that fall under the above
category, even though they were well-rested before session, consists of
three ways:

    1. The case supervisor sends the pc or pre-OT to a Dianetic auditor
who would list:

    "What pictures or masses have you touched on in life or in auditing
that have been left unflat?" The Dianetic auditor would get the best
reading item from the list, get the somatic or pain, or sensation or
unwanted emotion or attitude that goes with that picture or mass, make
sure that it reads well, and he would follow down to basic and erasure
that item that read with the picture or the mass, by standard R3R.

    The list is reassessed and is exhausted as above.

    When the above action is performed, the TA of that pc or pre-OT will
come back to its normal range, i.e., between 2 and 3, and the pc
brightens up as the list is handled.

                THE IVORY TOWER 633

    2. There are some pcs or pre-OTs that keep talking in Dianetic or
review sessions about "this huge automaticity of pictures coming in,
faster and faster." They also dope off somewhat in session and they are
somewhat hard to get an F/N on. The case supervisor would send such pcs
or pre-OTs to a Dianetic auditor who would list:

    "What pictures have you seen in auditing?" The list is handled
exactly as in 1 above. And the results are exactly the same as in 1
above.


¤Resistive Cases Former Therapy¤


    Hypnotism, "psycho" analysis, "psychiatry" and other implant type
therapies often key-in and jam the track.

    These characters here, on any other planet and on the whole track
~dramatize~ implanting. The "therapy" involved would be a temporary
relief brought about by suggestion.

    The wrong data of the "science" itself operates as a whole track
lie. Getting well or able depends on establishing truth. These
"scientific" lies are alterations of actual laws.

    We often note electronics men have a rough case time. This traces to
the lies Man uses for his "electrical science." As the subject is based
on false assumptions, it itself tends to aberrate.

    Therefore we get out of the road any former "therapy." We can
rehabilitate any moment of release in it, handle any overrun, etc.

    The only cases which hang up are:

    1. Unaudited cases (lies about grades, etc.)

    2. Drug cases (who seek in processing the delusions or madness which
exhilarated them on drugs)

    3. Former therapy cases (In this or past lives)

    4. Out of valence cases

    5. Cases who continue to commit overts on Dianetics or Scientology

    6. Case "audited" with their ruds or grades out

    7. Seriously physically ill cases (where the illness makes too much
PTP in present time).

    Of all these the former therapy case is apt to be the roughest as
any ~auditing~ session can be reactively mistaken

                634 BOOK THREE

for the "treatment." The next roughest is the drug case as a false
exteriorization often occurs on an enforced basis and may go into
restimulation.

    Some drug takers go plowing back into early implants and drug
therapies so the two get crossed up on a case.

    To isolate the reason for a highly resistive case or high TA you can
assess the above seven items and get a clue. Don't limit it to this
lifetime. And don't do it so as to key the person in hard on things he
wasn't in. And don't do it unless the case is very hard to get a gain
on.

    Engram running of a crude sort can be found hundreds, thousands or
billions of years ago and consists, if it appears, of an overrun. They
didn't know much about it and overran them badly.

    Implants, psychoanalysis, phychiatry, hypnotism gets all snarled up
with sex as these birds would commonly (and do) stage insane sex scenes.
They violate the children and wives of officials even today to produce a
degrade and to make a scene so insane that the "patient" if he remembers
it really thinks he ~is~ insane. And if he tried to tell anybody (or if
she tried to tell her husband) it's a prompt mess, so these
"practicitioners" hide their activities in this fashion.

    The trouble with such former "therapies" and electric shock, etc.,
is that it:

    A. Groups track by the command of the practitioner

    B. Sends the pc to the start of track ~way~ back and sticks him
there out of present time.

    The keynote of piloting through messes like this is to (a) know what
kind of a mess it is and (b) don't ~ever~ force a pc back track or into
anything he doesn't want to confront easily.

    Drugs ~force~ the person back into these messes and stick him.

    One of these former therapy or drug messes is only hard to untangle
because they are full of incredibles. The pc doesn't accept them or just
try to see what's in them.

    The basic rule in any case is reality is proportional to the amount
of charge removed and so reality can be increased simply by removing
charge. These surges of the needle as well as the BDs of the TA are
"charge coming off."

                THE IVORY TOWER 635

    Anything eventually resolves if the pc just keeps on getting charge
off.

    The earliest charge is the most important.

    Charge off the exact grades is the most valuable.

    But ~any~ charge off will make it, even on former "therapies."


¤Dianetic High Crimes¤


    Aside from Auditor's Code violations there are only four high crimes
a Dianetic auditor can commit:

    1. Cease to audit suddenly with the pc down the track somewhere

    2. Make a sudden evaluative remark in the middle of the session

    3. React or comment adversely on what the pc is running such as
being critical of the pc for having such an incident

    4. Force a pc to go on when he doesn't want to.

    These mess up pcs quite badly and give them a great deal of trouble
afterwards.

    Over the years these four actions have been observed being done from
time to time by persons trying to audit in Dianetics. They are just as
bad in Scientology but oddly, I don't recall them being done in
Scientology, only Dianetics.

    Example of (1): Auditor fails to give next command or any further
commands and leaves pc hanging.

    Example of (2): "Are you really interested in this session or not?"

    Example of (3): "That was a horrible thing to do."

    Example of (4): "Go ahead. Get into it," after pc has asked to stop.

    There are countless variations of these. In (1) the pc volunteers
it's all sort of unreal in the incident, so the auditor, instead of
TR-4, just ends session.

    These are very bad things to do. They don't kill anybody. But they
surely make pcs less auditable.

                636 BOOK THREE


¤Seriously Ill Pcs¤


    In Green Form No. 40 there is an item: Seriously ill.

    This is handled as follows:

    1. Medical examination

    2. Medical care

    3. Dianetic auditing as follows:

    List all somatics and feelings connected with the illness.

    Assess the list.

    Run R3R.

    Continue to assess the list and run R3R on items found.

    Add to the list any new items connected with the illness.

    The main point is to exhaust the entire list of all reading items.

    An illness contains many somatics, feelings, emotions.

    As a pc who is ill is easily made an effect, the auditing sessions
should be smoothly done and each session relatively short, completing
each session on the first erasure that gives the pc an F/N and a win
(erasure, cognition and F/N).

    The remaining items on the GF 40 are then handled.

    If "seriously physically ill" is not ~the~ GF 40 item, it is still
handled but in its turn doing the above Dianetic actions.

    Needless to say the item "seriously physically ill" is handled by a
Dianetic auditor.

    (Note: No narrative or multiple items must be audited. Get them
restated.)

    One can very easily go to extremes on mental illness versus physical
illness.

    One school says all trouble comes from physical illness.

    Another says it all comes from mental illness.

    The psychiatrist mixes the two and says all mental illness is
physical.

    The ~body~ is capable of having physical illness, acute (momentary)
or chronic (continual). Broken bones, pinched nerves, diseases can any
of them occur to a body ~independent~ of any mental or spiritual action.

    The mind or spirit can predispose the illness or injury. By this is
meant a person can be distraught and have an accident, or decide to die
and get a disease.

                THE IVORY TOWER 637

    But the disease or injury when he's got it is a body circumstance
and responds best to skilled medical (ordinary usual, put on a
tourniquet, set a bone, give a shot) treatment.

    On a sick or injured person, you can reduce the time of healing or
recovery by removing the spiritual or mental upset, providing the person
can be audited, but usually after effective physical treatment. The
facts are real enough. Auditing a person with a broken leg ~after~ it is
set and he is comfortable, to remove the engram of the accident or
treatment and the earlier "reason" he or she was distraught or had the
accident, can improve the bone knitting time by as much as two-thirds by
actual test. This would be six weeks down to two weeks.

    But the bone has to be set!

    A body is a biological object. It has all manner of internal
communication systems and organized interrelated functions.

    Now if you tried to audit a preclear when he was acutely ill, you
would find him hard to audit, confused and distracted and unable to
follow commands. He may become overwhelmed easily. He certainly is not
likely to respond properly. Because the ~body~ is sending all sorts of
pain or discomfort messages and confusions, it is very much in his way.
Two things are going on at the same time--his case as a spiritual being,
his body as a distracting pain or sensation object.

    The pc assigns the body to his case or his case to his body.

    You have to get the body out of the attention area to some degree
before anything helpful usually occurs by way of auditing.

    Now let us take the pc with a ~long-term~ illness. He has been sick
with something since the age of eight. He really doesn't know he's sick
physically. He blames it all on his own case.

    In a lot of cases we audit him and he has enough relief to then get
physically well. For he was mentally or spiritually suppressing his
body.

    These successes (and they are numerous) could cause us to do an ~all
mental~ concentration and lead some to insist all

                638 BOOK THREE

illness was from the mind. This makes some make the mistake of omitting
physical examination and treatment in all cases. Certain schools of
healing in the past got the entire field in disrepute by assuming and
stating and acting on just that.

    When you find a pc who does not easily respond, whether he answers
up to seven cases "physically ill" or not, you sure better get him to
the nearest clinic for a thorough physical examination including head
and spine X-rays and get him examined pathologically. For you will
usually find he is physically ill, in suppressed pain or discomfort.
There are cures for a lot of these things now and not requiring
"exploratory" operations either.

    ~Don't~ throw away all the grades of auditing on him. He's sick.
Physically.

    That's why you do a Preclear Assessment Sheet. A long history of
accident and illness should prepare you to be alert and to send him to a
clinic if his response to auditing is the least bit poor.

    ~Then~ when you have the physical side of it in hand, audit him at
assist level.

    ~When~ he is ~well~ give him his grades.

    ~Don't~ force auditing into physical healing. It works much of the
time. Special types of auditing (running out injuries, etc.) assist
healing markedly. That doesn't mean you should avoid all medical
treatment!

    "Failed cases" are medically ill or injured cases. Without
exception. So why fail. There ~are~ medical doctors and clinics. There
are standard, usual treatments. You don't have to buy "exploratories"
and questionable actions. These are done only when the medical doctor
can't find out either. When this impasse occurs, start doing assists or
look for engrams.

    There are some bizarre or strange postoperative (after operation) or
post-injury (after injury) conditions which do surrender miraculously to
auditing. A suppurating incision (operation cut that remains open and
unhealing), a bone that will not heal after having a plate put on it,
such things usually surrender to auditing. These facts should be used

                THE IVORY TOWER 639

but they do not contradict that medical treatment was needed in the
first place.

    The psychiatrist is an example of the other extreme to spiritual
healing. Instead of "all mind" he is saying "all physical."

    Holding either extreme produces failures.

    The psychiatrist got into his "all physical" by a sensing that
insanity symptoms seemed to resemble persons in pain or delirium.

    In these cases the stress of physical suffering is pouring back into
and overwhelming the mind.

    After considerable study on this, I realized that an error could
have been made out of a statement "all insanity is physical."

    This is probably the case in the large percentage of the insane. But
from this one cannot then say "all mental trouble is physical" because
that can be demonstrated as not true. We see it as easily as in a case
of a person falling ill on the receipt of bad news, who then gets good
news and gets well. The great Voltaire, on his death bed, received news
that he had been awarded the Legion of Honor, after a lifetime of being
scorned by authority. He promptly got up, put on his clothes and went
down to receive the award.

    In the case of insanity having physical causes, one could discover
this, say it and be promptly misunderstood in this way. The sufferer is
in a general agony from a nerve long ago crushed. This actual pain is
distributed from its point of concentration to the whole of the nervous
system. The person cannot think, looks dazed, cannot work or act. An
operation removes the pressure causing the condition. The person is then
"sane" in that he can perform the actions of life.

    After a few successes of this nature, the psychiatrist leaps to the
conclusion all ~mental~ trouble is physical. He teaches some student
saying "all mental trouble is physical." The ~student~ goes off, tries
to figure it out, dreams up a special insanity virus or "genes" or a
special illness called "insanity." He then resorts to all manner of odd
and often brutal treatments. By cutting or shocking a nerve channel

                640 BOOK THREE

one can stop the pain messages but such actions lay in new complications
which usually terminate in premature if not immediate death or injury.

    This tells one why tranquilizers (psychotropic drugs) make a patient
rational or at least able to function for a short while. They too have
their side effects. Usually all they do is, like aspirin, reduce the
pain.

    Patients do not always know they hurt. They suppress the pain or
sensation. It seems normal to them or "life." When they receive a
distressing experience or have an accident they cease to suppress and
may go "insane," which is to say, become continuously overwhelmed by
pain or unwanted sensation. They cannot think or act rationally. They
may even be insane only during periods of the day or month that coincide
with the ~time~ of the accident. But they are in physical distress.

    As they cannot eat or sleep, their condition worsens by exhaustion
and they may go into various states including a death motionlessness or
actually die.

    The ~correct action on an insane patient is a full searching
clinical examination by a competent medical doctor~.

    He may find disease, fractures, concussion, tumors or ~any common
illness~ which has escaped treatment and has become chronic (perpetual).
He should keep looking until he finds it. For it is there. ~Not~ some
"insane germ" but some ordinary recognizable illness or physical
malfunction.

    The ~wrong thing~ is to cut nerves or subject the person to more
pain. Electricity can ~force~ a nerve channel to flow or paralyze it.
That is probably why it ~seems~ to work sometimes. But it cures nothing
and more often ~confirms~ the insane condition and certainly fills the
patient with dread and terror, injures him and shortens life.

    The problem in insanity is often how do you keep the patient from
injuring himself or starving or dying before he can be examined by a
competent medical doctor in a properly equipped clinic.

    This is done by rest, security, feeding, under drugs if necessary.

                THE IVORY TOWER 641

    A patient can be "built up" by various biochemical compounds,
diathermy and other mild means that add to his stamina.

    Treatment of what really troubles him such as continual sensation
from a once broken leg which was never set, a broken spinal disk or such
pathological ills as disease, can then be treated properly and
corrected.

    Recovered from the treatment, the patient will be found not to be
"insane" any longer.

    Auditing can then occur, any and all engrams (traumas) erased and
the person's recovery will be greatly accelerated.

    Of course the real target of auditing is the improvement of the
ability to handle life, greater intelligence, reaction time and other
benefits.

    Like the spiritual healer of another age who said all was mind and
forbade physical healing, the practitioner who says all is body and
scorns mental healing is an extremist.

    Each of these is at the opposite ends of "Aristotle's Pendulum."
Each has ~seen~ with his own eyes a ~few~ remarkable cures. Thus each is
confirmed in his belief and will hotly argue and even attack others who
do not share his or her extreme view.

    The truth, as is usually found, lies in between.

    There is no "insanity virus." Even heredity remains unproven since
families perform similar actions, are prone to similar physical ills and
they also mentally pattern or copy each other. Either physical or mental
facts can similarly prove that "insanity runs in the family" when it
seems to do so. Thus "hereditary insanity" is an apparency which gives
rise to the folk tale.

    There is the spiritual identity of Man, the mind, the thetan, call
it what you will.

    There is the physical body of Man and that, even if cellular, is
still material or physical or whatever you call that.

    Proponents of both extreme allnesses are likely then to go off on an
erratic course of search and research as the truth includes both and
when you do include both you then begin to add up successes toward the
desirable 100% of the physical sciences in result.

                642 BOOK THREE

    One cannot call either extreme more than an art. And the proponent
of the purely physical does not have a "science" just because sciences
are also physical.

    One has a science only when one can predict and attain uniform
results by the application of its technology.

    It was very natural for the psychiatrist to ~think~ he had a foe in
Scientology as all he had to hear was "spirit" and he was off. Since
that has been his opposite "foe" for a long time.

    To ~heal~ Man one has to realize he is dealing with two things--the
spirit and the body. When a preclear comes to us because he wishes to be
~physically~ cured of a real current illness or malfunction, we do not
serve him well if when we see he does not respond to auditing we do not
require a fully physical clinical study of his body until a real illness
is found and treated.

    If we already ~know~ he is ill we should call in the doctor. And we
should limit auditing to assists.

    This is also a case of crossed purposes. We are trying to give him
greater capability and freedom. He is only trying to stop hurting.

    Go ahead, take them on. But at the first smallest clue (like the
preclear assessment sheet) that he is being audited only to get well,
you should have in good contact a medical doctor or clinic who is
friendly and does not do unusual things to people and get the preclear
diagnosed to ~really~ find what is wrong with him, get it cured if it is
medically feasible and then, with a physically well pc, give him his
auditing.

    If this is done routinely, another benefit will also occur. The
preclear so audited will not again become ill easily and will retain his
very real auditing gains when he has these.

    The ability of the body to get well often asserts itself when a
preclear is given auditing, since the source of perpetuation
(continuance) is removed from the illness and it changes.

    Letting a pc, who has a badly set continually painful bone go on up
the grades is doing him a disservice. He probably will not attain or
retain his gains.

                THE IVORY TOWER 643

    The stable datum on which I operate as a case supervisor is that if
a pc does not get good gains quickly I want to know (and will find) what
is physically injured or ill about him before I go on letting him be
audited. The X-ray machine and other clinical actions become a must. For
he is in suppressed pain and each time he gets a ~change~, he puts on
full stops as it started to hurt. He won't get the same gain again and
tomorrow the same process or type of process won't work. He stops the
pain if it starts to hurt which puts a new stop on his case. This is
true of those cases who really have a physical illness.

    Slow gain, poor result is a physically ill pc.

    The exercise of these points requires judgment for a person can be
given treatments which will not heal him. Where this is the case, and
the treatment seems too damaging or uncertain, treat the pc on this
routine:

    1. Rest
    2. No harassment
    3. Food
    4. Mild sedatives.

    When the person seems well, audit him.

    The truth of the above definition of "insanity" can be experienced
easily with no great stress. To have a headache or toothache is
sometimes quite distressing and distracting, making one gloomy or
inactive. Taking an aspirin cheers one up and he can work.

    That is in fact the basic mechanism. It is why tranquilizers work.

    This is why old-timers thought they had to cut nerves to "cure" the
insane. But that's like fixing the telephone exchange by throwing a hand
grenade into the switchboard. You may get no more complaints but you
sure don't have a telephone any more. Which, I suppose, is the basic way
to stop ~all~ complaints. Nobody can ring up even if the house were on
fire!

    Drugs such as marijuana are craved only when the being "needs them"
to stop undesirable physical pain or sensation. Then they backfire,
causing more distress than they cure.

                644 BOOK THREE

    Some pcs, taken off marijuana for a few weeks, can be audited. Some
can't. Those who then can't be audited are in pain whether they
consciously realize it or not. In their "unconscious mind" (below their
self- suppression) they ~hurt~.

    So those who can't be audited well when taken off some drug like
marijuana should be gotten to a good clinic and given "the works." A
competent medical doctor will find the broken bone, the disease, the
diabetes. Give it a medical cure.

    Then audit the pc by standard technology, checking resistive case
lists, etc., all over again.

    Pcs don't always know they're ill.

    Mental upset aggravates physical discomfort. Physical discomfort
aggravates mental unrest.

    So play it safe.

    A slow case who doesn't respond well to very usual approaches has
something else wrong with him physically.

    Don't be an extremist.

    Your job after all is to do the most you can for the pc.




                CHAPTER 10

                PERSONALLY C/Sed
                SESSIONS

    The health, happiness, and sanity of the planet depends on turning
out auditors who really can audit.

    My personally case supervised sessions are a vital part of learning
Dianetics and must be well studied. Don't just read the case
supervisions, study the session, read it all, locate any errors in
handling the pc, procedure, or admin. Notice also where the session was
standard. Study the case supervision, look back through the session to
see exactly what is being referred to and note what actions I have
ordered and why, referring to what you have already learned when any
uncertainty arises.

    By the time you complete this book, you should be a competent
Dianetic auditor.

    This is done by:

    1. Knowing cold all the materials of this book.

    2. Being able to audit standardly.

    3. Being able to supervise the auditing of others by knowing what
happened in session from the session reports,

                646 BOOK THREE

being able to pick up all departures from standard technology, being
able to give the instructions which will now put the pc right (if
previous session goofed) and able to proceed with standard Dianetics to
completion of case.

    This is achieved by thorough study of my case supervised sessions.

    Only my approved C/Sed sessions are permitted to be used for study
and training purposes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editor's notes:

    1. The sessions that follow were C/Sed by Ron in 1969. All Dianetic
R3R items are now run triple flow.

    2. Case 22 has been reproduced in its original handwritten form to
give the reader an idea of what a session looks like. In this case Ron's
comments tally with the page numbers of the original worksheets.
However, in the remaining 32 sessions, references such as "goof on Page
5 Column 2" are marked with the symbol [!!!] which refers the reader to
the corresponding area in the worksheet also marked with the symbol
[!!!].



                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 647


                Case 1
                [PICTURE#36] page 655

                648 BOOK THREE

                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: EL                                Date  26/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: LB                         No. of hours  3:15
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm     Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads        tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is session  1320   3.5         16
                                            Chains run:
Health Form (New).                          (first part) "unpleasant
                                            feeling of tightness in
                                            my nose."

Assessed to headache                32      1. No.4 on form.
(No.4 "unpleasant feeling                   2. (second part) a
of tightness in my nose.")                  swelling or infection
                                            on gum line
                                            making teeth sore."

Process R3R                                 3.  (located by
                                                interest)
                                            Scar on head
                                            from
                                            operation
                                            that
                                            gave a tight
                                            feeling
                                            in head.

That's it.        1635   3.7        32      4.  No.21 on
                                            form, "not
                                            wanting to
                                            have a
                                            body."






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 649

TIME                                                TA

R3R. Unpleasant feeling of tightness
in my nose.

1348                                                4.0

~1.~ Yes

~2.~ 1957

~3.~

~4. Dur:~ 47 min

~5. Move to beginning~

~6. What do you see?~

A large white room with an operat-
ing table and some steel work and a
black mask.

~7. Move thru inc. to a point 47 min
later.~

(Pc quiet, tending toward anaten.)

1353                                                4.0

Lying on op. table, mask put on my
face, huge feeling of pressure on my
nose. Huge feeling of golden dizzi-
ness, feeling of something alien. It
moves on and my leg is cut on just
behind my knee and several people
are touching it with cold steel.
Pulling on muscles I could move but I
don't want to. Don't want doctors to
know I'm alive, I'm awake.

~2.~

1357                                                3.9

~3. Move to 1957~

~4. Dur~ 23 min

~5. Move to begin of inc. in 1957.~

~7. Move thru to a point 23 min
later.~

(Pc going anaten)

(quiet)

~Earlier inc. with feeling of uneasi-
ness in the nose?~

1400                                                3.9

(TA not moving)

Checked for incorrect assess?

pc says yes it is, now.

~Which one is your interest on?~

Soreness in mouth.

TIME                                                TA

~1. Locate an incident in which you
had a soreness in your mouth.~

Can't locate one.

~1. Locate an incident which might
have caused that soreness in your
mouth.~

Yes

~2. Date~ Yesterday

~3. Move to yesterday~

~4. Duration:~ 5 min

~5. Move to begin~

~6. What do you see?~

Dane being assessed by Zelda in
front of me.

~7. Move through.~

~3. Move to yesterday.~

~4. Dur~ 5 min

~5. Move to begin~

~6. What do you see~

Dane and Zelda

~7. Move through~

~9. What happened?~

Dane started talking about a bump in
his mouth which was operated on. I
had a twinge in my mouth when he
spoke about pus and cutting it open.

~3. Move to yesterday~

~4. Dur~ 2 min

~5. Move to begin~

~7. Move through~

1415                                                3.75

(B.M.)

~Earlier similar incident which might
have caused that soreness in your
mouth:~

I can't find one.

~Checked for interest.~

On scar from operation that gave a
tight feeling in head.

~Feeling:~ general feeling of pressure
on my temples, on my eyes and
down along my nose.

                650  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~1. Locate an incident that might
have caused that~

1427                                                4.0

~2. Date~ 1958

~3. Move to 1958~

~4. Dur~ 17 min

~5. Move to begin~

~6. What do you see?~

I don't see anything, my eyes are
closed, white bandage over my eyes.

~7. Move through inc.~

1433                                                4.0

~9. What happened?~

I'm laid down on op. table, knife,
scalpel. Nurse puts swab on my eye,
blood trickles down into my eye.
Feeling I want to get away but I
don't dare move--it would hurt me,
knife so close to my eye.

1433                                                4.1

~3. Move to 1958~

~4. Dur~ 10 min

~5. Move to begin~ (flick)

~6. What do you see?~

Dr's white coat, white bandage and a
needle (PC GOING ANATEN)

~7. Move through~

(TA MOVING VERY LITTLE)

1437                                                4.1

(PC's HEAD SAGGING DOWN,
NEEDLE OF METER VERY
STILL, ALMOST STUCK --
MOVES ON BODY MOVEMENTS
AND NOT MUCH ELSE.)

~9. What happened?~

Needle was put in my neck. Bandage
on my right eye. Very strong feeling
of pressure. Prickly feeling of fear.
Feeling of fear that blood running
into my eye would hurt it. Not
wanting to move. End. Incident is
better now.

~Locate an earlier similar inc.~

(Steered with meter to inc.)

TIME                                                TA

~2. Date~ 1962

~3. Move~

~4. Dur~ 20 min

~5. Move to begin~

~6. What do you see?~

~7. Move thru to a point 20 min later.~

(TA starting to move.)

Dead body lying on table.

~3. Move to 1962.~

~4. Dur~ 18 min

~5. Move to begin~

~7. Move through to pt 18 min later.~

1454                                                4.2

~9. What happened?~

I walk with my sister into a room.
Cadaver there. I put my hand on it.
Top of head has been cut off it.
Gives me a sort of dizzy feeling.
Leave. End.

1501                                                4.1

~More solid?~ No

~3. Move to 1962~

~4. Dur~ 17 min

~5. Move to begin~

~6. What do you see?~

Cadaver--an old man lying on table.

~7. Move through 17 min later~

(Pc quiet. TA and needle not moving.)
Okay

~9. What happened?~

Walk in, body on table, chest caved in.
Bone very thick in skull. I put my finger
on it, inside, nerves, muscles, strange
alien machine. Can't believe it's a human
body. Gives me a feeling of tightness and
pressure to look at it. We leave.

(PC QUIET)

1508                                                4.2

~More solid?~

Yes.

~Locate an earlier similar inc. with a
general feeling of pressure on my~

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 651

TIME                                                TA

~temples on my eyes and down along
my nose.~

1517                                                4.0 (BM)

(STEERING) Located -- bright
white light streaming into my eyes.

1522                                                4.0 (BM)

Not an inc. Check meter--no more
inc. on chain. Blown.

1530                                                4.5

Interest on "Not wanting to have a
body."

~1. Locate an incident which might
have caused that.~

1532                                                4.1 (BM)

Can't find one.

(Steering) It's being born.

~2. Date~ Oct 22, 1946

~3. Move to Oct 22, 1946~

~4. Dur~ 17 min

~5. Move to beginning.~

~6. What do you see~

Nothing

~7. Move through to a point
17 min later.~

1545                                                3.9 (BM)

(TA starting to move)

(cough)

~3. Move to Oct 22, 1946

~4. Dur~ 17 min

~5. Move to the beginning of the inc
on Oct 22, 1946.~

~6. What do you see?~

Muscles rippling.

~7. Move thru the inc to a point 17
min later.~ Okay.

~9. What happened?~

Very close, tight feeling. Solidity all
around, pressure on my head and
ears, and pushing feeling of being
very small and very large all at once.
Heavy; wanting to move very
quickly. Feeling of choking, not
being able to breathe. Feeling of
pushing through. Light, very bright

TIME                                                TA

light. Being very tired.

1557                                                4.25

~More solid?~ Yes.

1558                                                4.3

~Locate an earlier similar incident
with a feeling of not wanting to have
a body.~

(Pc quiet. Cough.) (Needle moving
very little. Pc has eyes closed. Hands
crossed with cans.

1603                                                4.2 (BM)

leans back and hands with cans in
lap, goes slightly anaten. Shakes
head and slouches down in chair.
Still has not said anything. Looks as
if she is searching hard for an
incident, and having difficulty fin-
ding one.)

Pc: Okay.

~2. Date of inc.~ 1614

~3. Move to 1614~

~4. Dur:~ 40 min.

~5. Move to begin~

~6. What do you see?~

White, white all over. Everything's
white. I see a dog.

~7. Move thru to 40 min later~

(cough)

1613                                                4.2

~9. What happened?~

I'm walking along in the snow with a
dog. Slip and fall thru. Fall very far.
Start coughing. Coughing in snow.
There's a little hole way up at the
top. Look at the light. It's very far.
Colder, breathing in more and more
snow. It's very cold. It all starts
pressing on me at once. It's no use to
fight it. Sort of drift off.

1617                                                4.2

Than it's all gone.

~3. Move to 1614~

~4. Duration~ 45 min

~5. Move to begin of inc at 1614.~

                652  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~6. What do you see?~

White snow, rocks and a dog, big
dark grey vicious looking, very big.

~7. Move thru inc to point 45 min
later.~

1621                                                4.25

Okay

~9. What happened?~

Very strange, young, walking along
in the snow with a dog. Not afraid of
anything at all. Great feeling of freedom.
Then I slip into a hole. Go crashing
down. Can see all the way up to the top,
determined to get back up there. So soft,
pushing, it comes in all around me, very
cold and slippery. I start coughing and
getting very tired. It just keeps col-

TIME                                                TA

lapsing in. It's impossible. Very
tired. Now it's all gone--gone away.

1626                                                4.3

1627                                                4.4

1631                                                4.3

~More solid?~ Yes.

~1. Locate earlier similar incident with
a feeling of not wanting to have a body.~

There isn't one.

~How you doing on not wanting to
have a body?~

Feel fine.

                                                    4.5

~Look around room~                                  4.5 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.7 }

~That's it.~


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 653

                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam:                   Date:  26/4/69
             or                        Time:  16.40
After session exam   :v
Pc, Pre-OT name      :EL
Last grade attained  :VA
             or
Grade being attested :Dianetics

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Most confusing. That's all.
LF BD 3.5
      3.1
Laugh

Not full GIs in.



------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 3.1              Pc indicators:

State of needle: Needle stuck, then loosened, then rose.

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner

                654 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:EL            Date 26/4/69
Process run :R3R           TA 3.7 Time 3:
                           Auditor LB


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Ran incidents well. Had difficulty locating incidents.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Unable to tell at this time.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes. At end.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Tight, sticky.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).  Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                  Did it come down.
Yes                                        Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------

7. General TA range.
3.5 - 4.5
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Yes. Unhappy with pt environ to cheerful
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Very good throughout.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No           -                          -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
None mentioned by pc
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No                              -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No                                   -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes. Difficulty in locating incidents and in
staying on a chain.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No. Have not yet reached basic on the chain.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
3.7                                        Loose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Review HCOB 26 Apr. 1969 (handwritten copies
only as yet) and recheck symptoms list, perhaps
doing a new form. Get "feelings" stated clearly
with pc's agreement. This pc often needs steering,
but meter dependence must be avoided.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 657


                Case 2
                [PICTURE#37] page 663


                658 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: DT                                Date  24/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours  51 min.
Auditor: SM                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours



                                                      Total TA - 3.0

Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm     Sensi-             Results &
                        Reads        tivity             Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SOS               2045  2.6          5          Pc cheerful -
                                                happy

R3R on accident

22.4.69
          F/N     2100  2.0          5
Assess List       2101  2.0          5          High TA 2.65
Backpain F/N      2114  2.0          5          Low TA  2.0
Somatic on
my back F/N       2134  2.0          5
EOS               2136  2.0          5

                                                Pc beaming
                                                very good
                                                indicators

                                                TC - 1.80






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:
    Pc was so happy and ecstatic I ended session on last F/N.


                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 659

TIME                                                TA

2045                                                2.6

~1.~

~2.~ 22nd June 1430 pm 1969

(Fall in engine room)

~3.~

~4.~ 2 min

~5.~ Yes

~6.~ Me in engine room.

~7.~

                                                    2.6 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    2.2 }
2040

~9.~ I'm such a coward, I hate pain.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ I'm hanging on. Feet slip and I
fall. Blood running down my arm and
I'm crying.

2041                                                2.0

I'm all confused.

~D.~ I get a touch assist and get ARC
broken because the M.O. doesn't
clean the cut.

~Erasing?~

~More solid?~

Erasing.

~AB.~ Me hanging on a bar in the
engine room.

~C.~

~D.~ I slipped and fell on my knee and
elbow. Got touch assist. The M.O.
came down and bandaged up my
elbow, then I go to bed.

~Erasing?~

~More solid?~

It's like uggh--I have a half dozen
somatics turning on now from my
neck to my spine (yawn). It's solid.

~Earlier similar?~

Yes--oh, that's ugly

2058                                                2.0

~2.~ Fallin on head. Date: 1332 Gam-
blich (laughter).

F/N It's blown.

2100                                                2.0

TIME                                                TA

I fell on my head--I was mountain
climbing. Now I know what it means
when you dramatize an engram.

F/N INDICATED VGIs

2101                                                2.0

Medical List

    Head pain - x
    Back pain - sF
    Mens. pains - x
    Sore feet - x
    Depression - x
    Overweight - x

~Back pain Interested?~ Yes.

R3R

~1.~

~2.~ Two fish having fight.

~3.~

~4.~ 20 min.

~5.~ Yes.

~6.~ I see a big killer whale--it's not
me--lurking in deep dark ugly
water.

~7.~ I look like a big killer whale--it's
not me. It runs into another big fish
(yawn) we start fighting--getting
bitten--water churning--vertebrae
crack--rib cage crumbles--a body
floats to top of water.

~9.~ Well, these two large fish had a
fight--the fish I felt responsible for
(it's not me) lost--in a bad way.

~AB.~

~C.~ Large ferocious fish lurking in
dark water. This fish runs into
another fish and starts fighting.

2110                                                2.3

Bitten on neck, slapped around--
water churning and bubbling. Can
hear vertebrae breaking and rib
cage cracking.

~D.~ Two fishes had a fight.
The one I was responsible
for lost.                                           2.3

~Erasing~

~More solid?~

                660 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

More solid.

~Earlier similar?~

Yes.

~2.~ Working with like karate. 4 tril-
lion yrs ago.

2114              F/N                               2.6 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    2.0 }

                                               Line charge

It just blew.

F/N         IND          VGIs.

2115

One more somatic on my back.

~2.~ 363 (date)

~3.~

~4.~ 10 min

~5.~ Yes

~6.~ Me in a man body, six feet tall, on
hilly plain being chased by giant.

~7.~ This monster is coming after me.
He's 18 feet tall, knife in one hand
and club in other. Knocks me in back
with club, back cracked. Hits me in
neck with club, then splits my body
with sword.

~9.~ I lost. Also blew some mass on
that one.

2121                                                2.0

~AB.~ Me in male body running over
hilly plain.

~C.~ I'm running away from a giant, 18
ft. tall, he has club in right hand and
sword in left.

2123                                                2.3

I can hear him breathing (that's why
I hate snoring)

~D.~ He hits me and my spine goes
zap. Hit on right and left side of neck.
Then slice, right down the middle
and that body is gone.

~Erasing~

~More solid?~                                       2.25

TIME                                                TA

More solid.

~Earlier Similar?~

There must be

2125                                                2.25

(Yawn) Hard to confront these, they
hurt.

LF (yawn)

2126                                                2.3 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    2.0 }

Aha! An implant

~2.~ Two trillion years ago (yawn).

~3.~

~4.~ 12 min.

~5.~

~6.~ I see me in girl space body. Still
have ability to exteriorize, still OT.

~7.~ I've been had, captured, in middle
of implant station. It's horrible, bad
vibrations. Wish I hadn't brought
my body. How do they do this? Their
purpose is to make it painful to leave
body. I can see getting sucked into
something. It's purple and domelike.
I believed them that I shouldn't leave
my body. Two electric poles,
couldn't move. I was told I couldn't
be without my body and that I was
my body (I was hypnotized) If I tried
to exteriorize they told me I would
never come back and I would be in
pain.

2134        F/N                                     2.0

I'm so happy. I know why I got so
sick when I exteriorized and I really
really feel good. Wow, do I feel good!

VVGIs.     F/N INDICATED

~That's it.~

~EOS~

2136                                                2.0


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 661


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 24/4/69
             or                        Time: 21.50
After session exam  :x
Pc, Pre-OT name     :DT
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
I ran an implant. I ran all sorts of pain and
charge. LF BD 2.5, 2.3

My back feels so good -- GIs

Do I feel good Jim! Do I feel good!






------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.25              Pc indicators:

State of needle: F/N

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     x

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner

                662 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:DT         Date 24/4/69
Process run :R3R        TA 3.0 Time 51 min.
                        Auditor


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Very.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes - 4
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose and clean.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.0 - 2.25
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Tone high and greatly improved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Coloring
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes - face flushed and shining.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No           Yes                          -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                           Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No  - have not completed list.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Ecstatic
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.0                                       F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Continue on list.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 665


                Case 3
                [PICTURE#38] page 672


                666 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: RB OT IV                          Date  30/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: GR                         No. of hours  3 hr. 32 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm     Sensi-            Results &
                        Reads        tivity            Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
R3R START OF SESSION

Assessment         16:54  2.25      5
1. Locate inc
2. When was it
3. Move to date           END OF SESSION                GIs

4. Estab duration  18:08  2.9       5
5. Move to the beginning
of that inc.
6. What do you see?
7. Move thru the inc. to
a point duration later
8. (Ack - cont.)          START OF SESSION
9. What happened?  18:48  3.15      5
    A. Move to the beginning
    of that incident.     END OF SESSION
                   20:06  2.35      5                   F/N
                                                        Very
                                                        GIs

    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan thru to the end
    of the inc.
    D. Tell me what happened.
10. Repeat A to D as
required.





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:

                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 667

TIME                                                TA

Headache "the feeling of a
head pain."

17:36

~1.~

~2.~ 26 or 27 March 1943

~3.~

~4.~ 11:37 to 13:53

~5.~

~6.~ . . . couple of ships.

~7.~

(yawn)

Hit head on flat stone

                                                    3.0
                                                    3.15 }
                                                         } BD
                                                    2.85 }

(yawn)

See I'm bending over.

I'm in a daze.

I'm walking. I'm not in body.

I'm following it at an angle.

In house. Suffer loss of memory.

~9.~ I come to,                                     3.0
standing in a bathtub.

17:44                                               3.0

~AB.~ (Yawn) Smile

~C.~ Frowning

~D.~ Difficult to tell.

~Erasing/More solid?~

It doesn't seem to be getting more
solid.

~AB.~ (yawn)                                        2.85

~C.~ Pc getting dopey

17:48

Pain head to neck.

PC showing                                          3.0 }
                                                        } BD
signs                                              2.85 }
of effort running inc.

17:55

~D.~ I never realized that I
actually died this lifetime.

GIs                                                 2.75

(Cog) 9 yrs, 6 mos and 11 days
ago I actually died!                                LF

TIME                                                TA

                                                    { 2.75
                                              LF BD {
                                                    { 2.5

~Erasing/More solid?~

It's erasing.

I'm sure it's not the basic on the
chain, though.                                      2.75

I was dead, that is I was not even
around. It's a bit much to confront. I
as a thetan went to sleep on it. I was
still around.                                       3.0

There was a comm line put in to me
by this little girl. She brought me
back to life with a comm line.
I had a floating needle on this when
I said I was dead. We by-passed it.

                          (F/N)

But there's more                                    2.85
basics there.

18:07

The inc got               GIs
more solid as I ran
through it.
There are earlier incs.
This isn't the basic.
END SESSION FOR SUPPER.

18:08                                               2.9

~This is the Session:~

                    (GIs)

Let's finish the chain right down
to the end

18:50                                               3.25

~Earlier Inc?~ Yes--Get a picture
of a metal band on head. Roman
soldier type hat.

                                                    { 3.75
                                                 BD {
                                                    { 3.5

~2. On battle field

~3.~

~4.~ 1 min 126

~5.~ It's pretty solid.

~6.~ Horses, men;                                   3.75
battle song

~7.~                                                3.85

I'm laying on ground slash
on head, blood pumping out.

                668  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~8.~

~9.~ Went into battle and died.
(laugh) I know the guy I'm fighting.

~AB.~ East coast of                                 4.0
Italy, Naples.

19:00                                               3.9

~C.~

~D.~ I got body knocked off.
It's not a basic.

~Earlier Inc?~

I see a pict (needle tight).
Something to do with
fast cars.                                          4.15

I'm very vague about this Marcab
confederacy. I've had some attention
on this for some time.

                                                    4.25
19:11                                               4.3

~2.~ Actually, you know it's dispers-
ing. Hey! It's very, very far back.

(Needle loosening.)

My first time I got fixated on mest.
Ran into this once when doing TR-0.

19:45                                               4.15

It's
132 trillion
643 Billion
493 Million
(SOM IN HEAD)
863 thousand
962 years
11 mos
15 days
4 hrs
17 min
and 5 secs ago.

~3.~

~4.~ The figure I gave you, it
continues till now. It's right here!

~5.~

~6.~ Looking at a creation of press-on
steel like gold sequins. Like the
creation of a basic games condition.

~7.~ We're going thru now.

~8.~ If they succeed they flub. I can't
run this out at this point. This is like
the first betrayal of mankind.

TIME                                                TA

~8.~ I'm going to sleep.

                                                    4.1

Once you're inside this thing
you can't get out.

~8.~ I feel it's a bit heavy at
this point. I feel I'm falling
asleep at this point but I
felt misemotion.

                                                    3.9

                                                    4.1

~9.~ All I did was look at it
and here I am, boy. This to me
is the beginning of the bank!
Prior to this if you                                4.1
made a mistake you could go
back and handle it. But after
this inc. boy you can't handle
anything. You're less than half
at this point. I became other-determined.
What's a                                            3.85
thetan want?--admiration, right!

(Anger)

                                                    4.1 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.8 }

What I've done up to this point
has been the fog--this is the iceberg.
Underneath              (GIs)
is a feeling of being invalidated.
If a person does not feel safe he
will not expand beyond that point.

(Angry)                                             3.8 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.0 }

                                                    3.3 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.2 }

That does it.

It's got to be safe.      (GIs)                     3.3

~AB.~                                               3.5

(Yawn) I'm aware of a triangular
object 300 yds away.

~C.~

~D.~ Hey!

(Cog) (Smile) At first I was
in something then I wasn't.

                                                    3.75

Now I am in something and
can't get out of it. This is basic
track. When I

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 669

TIME                                                TA

run this out the rest won't matter.
Pc saying factors. "In the beginning
was the cause, etc."                                3.3

~Erasing/More solid?~

Erasing.

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ I got into this and thought I
wouldn't get out.

(NEEDLE VERY LOOSE.)

I'm sitting on this basic on the chain,
I don't think I'll ever be able to run it
out. How could I ever run it?
The time track seems to be straight-
ened out except for this one area of
"What's it" I get into                              3.65
and can't                                           3.75 }
                                                         } BD
get out of.                                          3.3 }

~Erasing/More solid?~

Erasing.

TIME                                                TA

It all came after this--this one
point is the beginning.

20:00                                               3.85

~AB.~ (Yawn)

~C.~ I'm just mystified by it (yawn).
I'm not taking all that much interest
in it.                                              3.8
I'm looking over it casually. I'm                   3.75
in it, inside is hollow. It's interesting
at this point. I have no mock-up, it's
just me as a thetan inside this
thing.           VGIs                               3.75
(Cog)--Here is the basic!                           LFBD
going into agreement                                3.75 }
                                                         } F/N
with a lie.                 VGIs                    2.35 }

20:06          F/N INDICATED                        2.35

WOW!

~That's it.~


                670 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 30/4/69
             or                        Time: 20:11
After session exam  :x
Pc, Pre-OT name     :RB
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
(laughs) That was a good session. Basic on the chain
is going into agreement with a lie.

(laughs) F/N         Your needle is floating. I know it is.



------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.6              Pc indicators: VGIs

State of needle: Clean, then F/N

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 671


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:RB          Date 30/4/69
Process run :R3R         TA 8:10 Time 2 1/2 hrs.
                         Auditor


Goals and gains:
Ran a "head pain" chain to basic. Pc feels great.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Very effective. He is flying!
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Tight to very loose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                               Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.25 - 3.15
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Yes, came right up to enthusiasm.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Yes, lots, anger.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, from yellowish grey to healthy reddish.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
            X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                           Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very happy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.35                                     Free
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
I have no suggestions. It was an excellent session.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 673


                Case 4
                [PICTURE#39] page 680
                [PICTURE#40] page 681
                [PICTURE#41] page 682


                674 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: DT                                Date  26/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: SM                         No. of hours  1 hr. 33 min.
                                     Total hours


                                        Total TA: 1.7

Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-             Results &
                        Reads      tivity             Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOS                2107  2.75        5               Goals:
R3R
1. Locate inc                                        PC - bright
                                                     and
                                                     alert.
2. When was it?

3. Move to that inc.
4. Duration
5. Move to the beginning                             High TA 4.1
of inc.                                              Low TA 2.75
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the
incident to a point _______
later.                                               Pc appears
                                                     tired.
9. What happened?

EOS.                2240  4.1         5






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 675

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

2107                                                2.75

(Item apathy)

Needle clean and loose

~1.~

~2.~

~3.~

~4.~

~5.~

~6.~ F--courtroom

~7.~ sF--

Comm lag

~9.~ Not too sure--standing in court-
room something happens--I went
unconscious or died.

~2.~

~3.~

~4.~

~5.~ (sigh) Jude talking.

~6.~

~7.~

1911                                                3.0

1912                                                3.35

(Deep breath)

~9.~ I tried to explain and it's not
accepted

(yawn)

~More solid?~

No, I get dizzy

~Earlier sim inc?~                                  [!!!]

Yes, there is.

~2.~ 47 trillion

~3.~

~4.~ Comm lag

~5.~ F

~6.~ Great cloud

~7.~ I'm being hung

~8. (OK, Continue)~

1916                                                3.7

~9.~ I think it's a death by
hanging.
Get dizzy--wonder if it's implant.
Seems I was hung by the neck.

2120                                                3.55 } 
                                                         } BD
                                                    3.25 }

TIME                                                TA

~2.~

~3.~

~4.~

~5.~

~6.~ People--Hill--I'm walking
up hill (yawn)

~7.~ Hands are bound--guards beside
me--walking up hill--robe on--there's
nothing I can do about it. I've been
betrayed. I'm alone now --Scaffold--
black--facing stairs--noose around
neck (wince) Terrible pain--impossible
to do anything--it's gone now--broken.
I'm dead--no more--ugly, pathetic,
(sigh) There's nothing (sigh) (Burp)
nothing I can do about it. I'm
gone--that's all--dead! Feel better (yawn)

~9.~ I was hung by the neck until dead.

~More solid?~

[!!!] More real.

~Earlier sim?~

(yawn)

Yes.

~2.~ 84 trillion

~3.~ (Yawn) (long yawn)

~4.~ 11 days 7 hrs

~5.~ sF--(yawn)

~6.~ Space

~7.~ sF (yawn) (yawn) Trying to
prevent collision--two planets.
Dropped myself in between (yawn)

2133                                                3.8

(eyes watering)

(Deep breath)

(Body jerked)

oh!

2138                                                4.0

~9.~ Trying to hold two planets apart
and couldn't. Got myself in between.
They exploded. My body splattered
over the universe--was trying to
round up all the bits

~2.~

                676 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~3.~

~4.~ (yawn)

~5.~

~6.~ Two planets coming together.

~7.~ sF, sF, F

~9.~ Seems to have gone                             4.05

~Earlier sim?~

Comm lag

2146                                                4.05

(Needle tight)

Yes

~2.~ Beginning of time

94 trillion

~3.~

~4.~ 1 min

~5.~

~6.~ Nothing

~7.~ sF, F.

~9.~ Nothing much, I don't know. I've
got a headache. There's no incident
here.

~Earlier sim?~

No.

Feel apathetic about running apathy
engrams--maybe wrong date some-
where--94 trill years wasn't right.

~Earlier than 84 trillion~

Yes--Big space thing.

~2.~ 14years--another time--another
space another universe. The year 14
in time.

~3.~

~4.~ 14 yrs.

~5.~

~6.~ Spaceships

~7.~ I'm in charge of this whole fleet.
I've got a war going. The enemy is
there. I take them into battle; got to
get around to other side. Got to beat
these people or it will be the end of
the world, fights all around. Send
that small force to the rear. I don't
know what's happening--can only
use the data you've got. They are

TIME                                                TA

stronger than we thought. There's
nothing I can do now; my men are
getting slaughtered. Got to stop them.
I caused the death of hundreds of
thousands of men. Got to get info.

~9.~ There was a battle. I didn't have
enough info. Lost the battle.

~2.~

~3.~

~4.~

~5.~

~6.~ (yawn) Big room.

~7.~ It's a strategy room. Haven't got the
info. Don't know where the enemy is
--complete breakdown of intelligence.
Have to do something. Send in troops.
Troops are not ready. In they go.
They are slaughtered. My fault. I'll go
myself; good general always
makes right decision. Nothing more to
do--no information. Only thing to do
is kill myself. But it won't solve anything.
Nothing I can do about it,
it's happened, that's all.

(PN)

~9.~ Just what I told you as I went
through.

~More solid?~

Yes.

~Earlier sim?~

2213                                                4.1

Yes.

~2.~ 1462

~3.~

~4.~ Not 1462, it's 400. 400 years
ago I guess.

~3.~

~4.~ 3 min, 37 1/2 sec.

~5.~

~6.~ Mountain.

~7.~ Yea--dust and rocks failing down
on me. I'm trapped. Keeps falling. I
die.

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 677

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ Landslide. Someone set it off.
Got trapped under it. Tried to push it
off, couldn't do it. Body died.

~2.~

~3.~

~4.~ It's gone, not there--Yes,
I got it.

~5.~

~6.~ Rocks falling.

~7.~

~9.~ Just got crushed under some
stones. This chain ended about two
incidents ago. These are just a couple
of little things. It's gone. I
think they are emotional tone levels.
Perhaps I'm not confronting basic;
it's just an engram.

~Earlier sim?~

2226                                                4.1

Seems like it's a bloody big overt
here because I run one flow too long.
Maybe implanting a lot of people or
something; being suppressive.

~2.~ 94 trillion,
462 billion,
842 million,
427 thousand,
500 yrs ago
and I was a dog.

TIME                                                TA

~3.~ sF

~4.~ 4 yrs.

~5.~

~6.~ (burp) Lots of people.

~7.~ I'm on a balcony looking down
on people, guards around palace. I'm
very cruel. I've got the secret. I'm
feared--(burp) I torture people. I'm
very cruel. I have this woman cut up
and visciously molested. Same done
to a lot of women.

2235                                                4.1

I have food tasters who try the food
before me. I'm very suppressive.
They get me and lock me up in
dungeon and I go mad and get very
thin--and I don't care what happens.
They let me out and I try to escape
and become inconspicuous -- they
find me and tear me to shreds. Break
my arms, cut out my stomach.
Nothing left.

~9.~ I told you--was an overt-motivator
thing.

~That's it.~

2240      ~EOS~                                     4.1


                678 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 26/4/69
             or                        Time:
After session exam  :x
Pc, Pre-OT name     :DT
Last grade attained :OT VI
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I got to my office before I remembered I had to get
to the Examiner.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.7              Pc indicators: GIs fair.

State of needle: Clean

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     x

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 679



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:TD         Date 26/4/69
Process run :R3R        TA 1.7 Time 1 hr. 33 min.
                        Auditor SM


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Not good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Process effective
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose and clean, then tight - stuck.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                                No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.0 - 4.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
High-toned at first, went down later.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Tired
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Some
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                           Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes - see Suggest
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Not really
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
4.1                                        Stuck
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Pc mentioned "I seem to be running an emotional
tone - Should the feeling of apathy - an emotion which
certainly every thetan experiences just before death,
be run in Dianetics?"
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 683


                Case 5
                [PICTURE#42] page 690


                684 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: MM                                Date  26/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: PS                         No. of hours 1 hr. 30 min.
                                     Total hours 1 hr. 30 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm    Sensi-             Results &
                        Reads       tivity             Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
START OF SESSION                                   Goals:
                   13:40  2.4         8

Assessment of somatics
(the feeling)
R3R
1. Locate an incident                              Pc got
2. When was it?                                    tired while
3. Move to                                         making up
4. What is the duration                            somatics
of the incident?                                   list in the
5. Move to the beginning                           beginning
of that incident                                   of session

6. What do you see?                                Pc bad
7. Move through the incident                       indicators.
to a point (duration) later.                       ARC
8. What happened?                                  broken.

END OF SESSION     15:10  2.95       8






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 685

TIME                                                TA

~Start of Session.~ Sens 8

1340                                                2.4

                                                    2.5

~What somatics do you have?~

Headache.

~What's the feeling of it?~

1. Pain in my forehead.

1341                                                2.7

~What other somatics do
you have?~

2. Backache                                         Sens8
muscles pull on
my spine.

1344                                                3.0

3. Shakes (when cold)

~What is the feeling of it?~

1345                                                3.1

It's hard to describe.
Feeling like energy running
up on top of my spine.

~Cuts?~

Cut my fingers lots                                 3.1 }
                                                        }BD
of times.                                           2.9 }

~Any somatics from it?~

no.

~Twitches?~

My thumb used to twitch,
it doesn't any more.

1348                                                2.4

(Change grip of cans)

Strikes in head.

~Any somatics from it?~

No.

4. Tiredness

Tiredness is the feeling.

1350                                                3.0

When it's hot and sticky
I get confused and tired.

1352                                                3.3 }
                                                        }BD
1353                                                3.2 }

~Do you have any other
somatics?~

No, I don't think                                   3.4 }
                                                        } BD
so.                                                3.28 }

Assessment:

1. PAIN IN MY FOREHEAD.

2. MUSCLES PULL ON MY SPINE

TIME                                                TA

4. FEELING OF ENERGY
RUNNING ON TOP OF
MY SPINE.

4. TIREDNESS.

1356    (Pc dopy)                                   3.1 BM

1359    Tiredness.                                  3.1

~Locate an incident which
could have caused a feeling
of tiredness.~

                                                    3.2

(Pc tired, bent over)

I don't know one which could have
caused it. I know one where I felt
tired.

~2.~ June 17, 1967

1900                                                3.5

                                                    3.25 BM

~3.~ OK

~4.~ 5-6 hours

1901                                                3.6

~5.~ I'm there

~6.~ HCO                                            3.5

~7.~ 1902                                           3.7

I'm tired and I'm fed up.

                                                    3.4 BM
1904                                                3.6

~8. Fine, continue.~

1905                                                2.75

Pc dopey. Very tired.

Looks up.                                           3.6 BM

                       (Changed grip.)

Closes his eyes.

Pc half asleep, bent over and
looks up.

1909

~9.~ It's clean, man, we audited this
yesterday.

~AB.~ Hmm.

1911                                                3.6

~C.~ Hmm-hmm

HCO

Lenka and 3rd Mate's desk.

1911                                                3.8

This is such a bore.
I'm going back to
sleep. I ran that yesterday.

~Fine, continue.~

                686 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

1912                                                3.0 BD

~D.~ I was confused about
my work. I went into tiredness.
When I get tired I fall into that.

~When was the incident?~

17 June 1967.

1915                                                3.75

~8.~ Comm lag.

This is so boring. I ran this
yesterday.

                                                    3.25 BM

~9.~ When?

In the incident I got tired
because I got confused.
I'm being overrun.

~Is the incident getting more solid?~

The incident has no charge left.

1920                                                2.9 BD

~Earlier incident with a similar
feeling?~

I did yesterday. I forgot what
it was. Something yesterday.

~Locate an earlier incident
with a similar feeling.~

1921                                                2.5

1923                                                2.75

1924                                                3.0

I can't. We ran one yesterday.

                                                    3.0 }
                                                        } BD
(MISEMOTION)                                        2.5 }

You got an                                          2.75 } 
                                                         }
F/N on this                                         2.5  } BD 
                                                         }
yesterday!                                          2.4  }
Yesterday was a basic.
Pc's GIs come
in.

Reassessment

PAIN IN MY FOREHEAD

1925                                                2.75

We didn't get to the basic on                       2.5
that one. I'll give you the basic right
now.                                                2.3

(Comm lag)                                          3.1

What was the command again?

~7.~

TIME                                                TA

1441                                                3.1

                                                    3.0

There is something out
here. These we ran before.

                                                    2.75

I got a headache when I
used to get losses.

~Was that the same feeling?~

Yes. (looked up)

~Do you remember the last
incident we ran on that
chain yesterday?~

No.

~It was when Liz cut your comm
and you got a headache pain
in forehead.~

Oh yes.

I can't audit. I'm getting ARC
BROKEN. I'm being asked
for something I can't find.
I can't think of anything. Can't
concentrate my
attention in that area.

1940                                                2.4

(Pc getting angry.)

                                                    2.6 BM

                                                    2.4

1945                                                2.6

I've got by-passed charge.

1947                                                2.75 }
                                                         } BD
1948                                                 2.4 }

I'm ARC broken about
something we did before.

~All right, we are going to find the
basic engram, on that chain we ran
yesterday. We ran a lock and a
secondary.~

                                                    2.2

Oh no! (laugh).

1951                                                2.5

I'm stuck. I want a review. Want to
get the other thing handled.

1955                                                2.4

I'm waiting for you to end session.

1959                                                2.25

I don't want to be audited any more.

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 687

TIME                                                TA

R3R on session.

Have you ever read the
HCOB that you never audit
over an ARC break?

1503        No.                                     2.2

TIME                                                TA

~End session~

1510   Pc ARC broken. Has
by-passed charge
on something.


                688 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 26/4/69
             or                        Time: 15.19
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :MM
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested  :

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
It wasn't a real cool session man! We started the
session and the new bulletin that came out, he took
the symptoms and the feelings, he ran them and
overran it. He put me in a funny position. I don't know
what he was doing. I am totally ARC broken. I could
tell the guy was committing out tech on my case and
it makes me mad. I don't know what he was trying to do.
He messed up the whole thing. I want to get an ARC
assessment done to handle this right away. He
invalidated all the gains I had from the last session.
Bad indicators.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 1.8 then climbed              Pc indicators:
             to 2.1

State of needle: Dirty needle -- stuck.

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 689



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:MM            Date
Process run :R3R           TA     Time
                           Auditor


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Not well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Not good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes, 3.8                                    Yes, 2.25
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.25 - 3
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Yes, angry.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Fine
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Healthy
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No             -                            -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Tiredness                          No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes. Pc not possible to audit. Had to end.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.25                                        Dirty.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Find by-passed charge in Review.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 691


                Case 6
                [PICTURE#43] page 696


                692 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: HB                                Date  26/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: WA                         No. of hours  31 min.
                                     Total hours  31 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-          Results &
                        Reads      tivity          Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of Session     2:39  3.30         6           Goals:

This is the process  2:40  3.30         6

1. Inc.
2. When was it?
3. Move to
4. Duration of incid.
5. Move to the beginning
of that incident.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the incident
to a point (?) later.
8. What happened?

End of Session       3:10   4.0        6





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 693

TIME                                                TA

~1.~ Blockage of nose.

Pc's interest.

Pressure blocked up.

~2.~ May 14, 1963.

~3.~ Nodded.

Pc dozing off.

~4.~ 5 minutes.

~5.~

~6.~

Pc sleeping dozing off. Chunks of
bank.

~7.~ Pc doping off.

~8.~ I just go straight off.

~3.~

2:45                                                3.4

Pc still doping off.

Aud: ~What's happening?~

Pc: Nothing, I wasn't with it. Yeah.

~4.~ 3 1/2 minutes

~5.~

~6.~ Just start to look at something
and I go straight off.
Room with table in it books open,
pencil.

~7.~ Floor worn.

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ I'm discouraged that
I go off so easy.

~Is it getting more solid?~

I think it must be.

Pc still doping off.

~Earlier similar time of pressure?~

Not that I know of.

Pc doping off.

2:58                                                4.0

Aud: ~What's happening?~

Pc: I just keep going off.

Pc is continually going to sleep.

I just go blank. I just go unconscious
everytime the question is asked.

3:06                                                3.60

Pc continuously falling asleep.

Did assessment on new Health
Form. No reads. Asked pc what he
has his interest on now.

Pc unconscious, not responding to
questions or commands, throughout
session.

~End of Session.~


                694 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 26/4/69
             or                        Time: 15:10
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :HB
Last grade attained :OT III
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
It ain't going right. I just go out like a light.






------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 3.25              Pc indicators:

State of needle: Needle jerky, then loose.

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 695


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:HB               Date 25/4/69
Process run :R3R Dianetics    TA .2 Time 31 min.
                              Auditor WA


Goals and gains:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Not good at all. Pc kept falling asleep when
given commands.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
No apparent effect.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Stuck.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
                           x                x
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                                No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.75 - 4
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Unconscious. Didn't improve.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
x            x                            x
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
x                              x
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
x                                  x
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes, pc started to fall asleep at beginning
of session.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
4.0                                            Stuck.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
More to do and I don't know what.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 697


                Case 7
                [PICTURE#44] page 705
                [PICTURE#45] page 706
                [PICTURE#46] page 707


                698 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BR                                Date  May 26th
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: KJ                         No. of hours  2 hrs. 7 min.
                                     Total hours  2 hrs. 7 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm    Sensi-             Results &
                        Reads       tivity             Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session  2043  4.25   16              Goals:
Reality-Factor       2045  4.0    16              Not asked.
Health Form          2045  4.0    16              Pc
                                                  appearance
                                                  fair.

_Item_Assessed_
Deep heavy pain right in
the middle of the belly
                     2053  4.4    16              No end of
                                                  session
                                                  comments
Process R3R          2054  4.4     5
                           4.3
                     2250  4.7     5              Pc
That's it.           2256  4.5     5              appearance -
                                                  more
                                                  colorful,
                                                  youthful.

TOTAL TA                   6.9                    Trim check
                                                  TA 1.7
                                                  = 2.0

1. Locate an incident
2. When was it?
3. Move to...
4. What is the duration of
the incident.
5. Move to the beginning of
that incident.
6. Close your eyes. What do
you see?
7. Move through the incident
to a point _____ later.
8. Okay, continue.
9. What happened?
  A. Move to the beginning of the incident.
  B. Tell me when you are there.
  C. Scan through to the end of the incident.
  D. Tell me what happened.
Q. Locate an earlier incident
that could have caused a similar...
Q. Okay, we'll re-run the previous incident.







------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 699

TIME                                                TA

~R3R question~

Deep heavy pain right in
the middle of the belly.

2055                                                4.5

~1.~ Pc quiet, needle steady.
Pc swathes forehead. Grief
building up.

2057                                                4.4

Pc grunts: Well, that's difficult.
When I had my appendix out as
a kid of 12 years.

                                                    4.5

2100                                                4.5

~2.~ I think just before my
12th B/Day I got a new
bicycle when I got out of
hospital. Before March 1936.
Between Christmas and end of
February, '36.

~3.~ Ahem.

~4.~ Say about total 1/2 hr.

~5.~

~6.~

2105                                                4.5

Oh, I see an operating theater.
The big gas bottles, pans, doctors,
nurses, instruments, etc. Big lights.

~7.~

(Auditor coughs) Dr. Urwin, old
fanatic.

~8.~ Yes, well this bloke, he put this
anaesthetic tremendously sweet,
suffocating. (Pc yawns) I choke, I'm
not gettin air.

(Pc laughs) . . . I must have gone to
sleep. Next I remember violently ill
after operation. There was a nurse
holding my head firmly. Nothing to
remember. Unconscious. End of
incident.

(Pc yawns)                                          4.6

~9.~ Pain in the belly.

2111

Monstrous sore belly.

(Pc laughs)

Sorest belly I've ever bad. That's

TIME                                                TA

about all. That was the anaesthetic.
Unconsciousness.

Nurses.

I like pretty girls. I just stayed in
bed a couple of weeks . . . Had
appendix taken out.

2115                                                4.5

Extremely sore belly.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ Ya.

~D.~ I would say a doctor with a mask,
had cotton wool--choked me,
couldn't breathe, felt like choking to
death. I know he told me to keep on
counting up to ten. (Pc yawns) by
then I was asleep. Yes, I remember
counting, yes, then the op. I was
unconscious. I was a spoilt child,
whole family was there.

(Pc laughs)

~Erasing?~

Yes.

2120                                                4.5

Bloody hard to see when I look
around. Must be erasing. My head
was being pushed down when I (pc
bends . . . ) vomiting!!!

(Pc touching cans together)

                                                    4.6

~AB.~ (Touching cans) I'm there.

~C.~                                                4.6

~D.~ One of these . . .

(Pc yawns) (Moans) Talks slowly
and softly.

~Erasing?~                                          4.6

It is, yes.
It difficult for me to say.

(Laughs)                                            4.6

Vomiting like porridge . . .
cut open belly.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~

2115                                                4.3

Operating theater . . .
on wheels.

                700  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

(Pc yawns)

Doctor--needle at same time.
I think I told them I was choking,
"Take it off, I can't breathe."                     4.4

Counting very slowly.

~D.~ Next thing I know I was
vomiting in basin. Hurt belly
when I vomited.

2129                                                4.5

2 nurses . . .                                      4.6 
                                                        BD
Exotic bitch                                        4.4

That's all.

~Erasing?~

Definitely.

~AB.~ A bit difficult--a basin of
water. Yes . . .  I'm at the
beginning.

2132                                                4.4

~C.~

(Pc moving and yawning)

                                                    4.3

Choking unconsciousness.

(Auditor coughs)

That's all                                          4.6

                                                    4.4

~D.~ I was operated on.
That's all. Yeah, it was over
when I vomited in
the basin.                                          4.7

~Erasing?~ Yeah.

~A.~

~B.~ Right, fine.

~C.~                                                4.5

~D. ~

Chloroform operating theater.

(Pc yawns, sits up)

(Pc shifts--crosses legs)

(Sits sideways)

~Erasing?~                                          4.5

Definitely erasing.

~A.~                                                4.4

~B.~ I'm there.

~C.~ Yeah.

~D.~ I just scan through same.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

                                                    4.5

~AB.~ I'm there.

TIME                                                TA

~C.~ I did that.

~D.~ 2140  (Pc yawns)

. . . When I woke up I was sick.

~Erasing?~                                          4.7 [!!!]

Yes, but it's certainly difficult
to see the picture. Still sore
belly . . .

(Moves in chair and touches body,
says it's less than when we started)

                                                    4.75

~AB.~ Pc more awake.

~C.~                                                4.3

~D.~ 2145 (pc shifts)                               4.4

Drooping off to anaten again.
(Looks up) Don't think anything
particularly happened, given more
drugs, a shot in the arm.

                                                    4.6 }
                                                        } 
(!!!Pc cogniting)                                   4.5 } BD
                                                        }
Says it's funny.                                    4.4 }

(Looking around, quietly)

(Pc shifts, clip off cans)

~Erasing?~

Yes, there's not much to see.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ Yeah.

~D.~ Pc shifts to another position and
talks . . .

Drugs to sleep                                      4.6 }
                                                        } BD
~Erasing?~ Yes.                                     4.5 }

~A.~ Yeah.

~B.~

~C.~ Yeah.

~D.~                                                4.6

Wheeled on a cart into operating
theater, gassed, anaesthetized.
wake up sick, painful.

~Erasing?~

2150

Yeah, well, the pain in my belly is
less.

(Pc feels and smiles)

~A.~                                                4.6

~B.~ Yeah.

~C.~ Yeah.                                          BD

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 701

TIME                                                TA

~D.~ Pc shivers. Body movement.                     4.4

Well, I told you.

~Erasing?~ Yeah.

~AB.~                                               4.6

~C.~ They're all there. Yeah.                       4.3

                                                    4.6

~D.~ (Pc yawns moves in chair)

Dr. Urwin.                                          4.4

~Erasing?~                                          4.5

I can't see anymore. I've got the
feeling coming on that I had before.
That's why I'm not sitting still. How
can I explain. I've had it a long time.
It's excruciating.

(Pc flinches)

2200

~AB.~ (Mumble)                                      4.75

~C.~

~D.~ (Pc scratches head)

No food, then to operating room
anaesthetic--asleep, wake up.                       4.75

~Erasing?~                                          4.5

Yes, very hard to see.

2201

~A.~ (Pc goes anaten)

~B.~ Yeah.

                                                    4.7

~C.~ What?

~Repeat C.~ (meter ticks)

Pc anaten--looks up slowly, then
quietly down again.

2205 (Anaten)                                       4.7

Pc dozes off to sleep. Needle clean,
very steady.

                                                    4.6

Needle swaying back and forth on
set. (Noise outside wakes pc)

2210 Pc dozes off again.                            4.6

(Auditor coughs) Noise on deck.

(Pc looks up)

~D.~

(More noise from ship)

Pc looks up and returns to
dozing/anaten.

TIME                                                TA

Ship continues noises around pc.
But pc anaten. Pc originates
"I didn't say anything."

(~Ack~)

Pc returns to dozing.

(1/2 inch theta bop)

(Needle flicking to right and back
to set) (Steady pattern ~not~ dirty)

2217                                                4.6

Pc sleeping very comfortably. Some-
body runs past, pc wakes and just
hmmmmms. Returns to sleep. (Au-
ditor coughs)

2221                                                4.6

!!! Pc begins breathing very heavily
and in rhythm.

2221

Needle slight swaying to and fro!!
On set.

2224

Pc quieter now.

(Aud coughs) Noise outside wakes
pc. Pc says it's funny.

2230                                                4.6

Pc sits up but still anaten.
Pc asks what's going on.

(TR-4)

~Repeat D.~

Well, there's not much left to tell.
Pc coming to PT.

(Aud coughs)

Pc repeats there's not much more to
tell.

(Muttering)                                         4.75

Also moves.                                         4.5

2234                                                4.5

(Pc orienting self)

quietly. Well, I feel now as if I've
been unconscious.

~OK, continue.~                                     4.75

Nothing to continue.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

Pc GIs.

~AB.~ All right, I'm there.

                702 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~C.~ Pc nods, yeah.

~D.~ . . . (Yawns)                                  4.75

Pc shifts

I told you there's nothing left to tell.

~Erasing?~ Yeah.

~AB.~ Yeah, there.

~C.~                                                4.6

~D.~ Just went on wheels onto the
operating table. Mask on face,
nurses around. Choking feeling.

~Erasing?~ Hmmmm.                                   4.6

~AB.~ There's something wrong. I
keep going back. What am I looking
for? Pc stretches.

~A.~ Repeat.

~B.~ I'm there.

~C.~ Yeah.

~D.~ Exactly as I told you before.

(Aud coughs.) Pc scratching.                        4.6

Hospital, I'm being sick.

2241                                                4.4

                                                    4.5

~Erasing?~

TIME                                                TA

Yes, it's erasing. It's erased,
there's nothing there.

~We'll go earlier and see if a
similar incident.~

~Q Earlier incident of sim . . .~

2245                                                4.5

No, I don't think I can.

~All right.~

Re-run previous incident.

~AB.~

~C.~                                                4.6

~D.~ Around the operating theater
choking feeling.

2250                                                4.7

Pc doesn't want to run it anymore.
Not interested in running anymore.

2256                                                4.7

                                                    4.5

Gave pc havingness,
~"Point out something in the room."~

~That's it.~


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 703


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 26/5
             or                        Time: 2310
After session exam  :
Pc, Pre-OT name     :RB
Last grade attained :I
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hi -- Grin -- Looks good. Well -- ha ha -- What's the
word? Nonplussed -- I'm not aware of anything coming
out of that session -- I feel quite happy. I guess that's
about all. Smile.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner: (see above)


TA position: 3.5              Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: Flowing

Note any further data required by C/S: Qual closed --
                                       had to set up meter.

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                704 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BR       Date May 26th
Process run :R3R      TA  6.9 Time 2 hr. 7 min.
                      Auditor KJ


Goals and gains:
Pc left session without PTP somatic -  Less!!
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Pc did fair on process run.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Yes, somatic in PT gone. Lots of drowziness dis-
charged.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Steady on set, but clean.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                                Part
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
4 to 4.75
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc gave signs of higher tone.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, more rosy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No           Yes                        No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes, mostly pc anaten
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
headache at beginning of       Yes
session
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Pc sleeping in session.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
4.5                                        Steady and clean.
                                           See trim check 1.7
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Continue with R3R. If TA high though, to
Examiner.
Note: Page 6, top of column one: Pc says PTP:
Somatic less than when he came up.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 709


                Case 8
                [PICTURE#47] page 716


                710 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: PM                                Date  22/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: KJ                         No. of hours  1 hr. 12 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-          Results &
                        Reads      tivity          Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
R3R
1. Locate an incident that
could have caused
2. Date
3. Move to
4. Duration of incident
5. Move to beginning
6. What do you see?
7. Move thru the incident
to a point later.
8. Okay, continue
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are                          F/N
    there.                                           Pc very
                                                     happy
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incid.
    D. Tell me what
    happened?


This is the session       1258  3.25

End of Session            1410  2.0





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 711

TIME                                                TA

1258                                                3.25

~This is the session.~

Did assessment.

LF--pain in back.

LF--pain in back of neck.

Pc interested in pain in back.

Feeling dull ache.

1:02                                                4.0

                                                    4.2

~1.~ Yes                                            4.25

~2.~ 16th century.

~3.~ Yes.

~4.~ I don't know.

                                                    4.2

~5.~ Yes.                                           4.5

~6.~ Some horses. A lot of fires
around.

1:10                                                3.9

~7.~ Lances.                                        3.8

Fighting on horses.

                                                    4.2

~9.~ I only see a bunch of horses.

                                                    4.0

                                                    3.8

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~                                                4.1

Men on horses with lances. Ride out.
Gallop and gallop.

1:16                                                3.9

~D.~ Some men in a courtyard
arrive on horses with lances.

                                                    3.5

That's all. I can't see further.

~More solid?~

No.

~Erasing?~

No.

Just that little part of it is there.
I cannot see further than just
galloping horses and horses with
their lances. There is a lot of
whiteness. Dry countryside,
no trees.

1:20                                                3.3

TIME                                                TA

I've got a feeling that the one man is
me. Me in a man's body. I'm no
longer on the horse.                                3.1

(Pc is thinking and telling what
happened. Pc a little confused about
date.)

I'm in a little garden.

~More solid?~ No.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

~A.~ Yes.

~B.~ I'm there.

1:25                                                3.2

~C.~ Men with their lances on the
horses, galloping off. I see a man
riding thru the mountains, it could
be me. I see a garden, part of a
house, people from outside. Couldn't
look in and see. No one in the garden.
No one there.                                       3.75

~D.~ A woman there with long dress. I
was a soldier in the army. I was
looking at her. I am angry with her.
She was not looking at me at all.

                                                    2.8

Two guards come in and take me away.
I'm very amazed.
I hate her.                                         2.75

I mount up some steps, two guards
walked behind me into the building.
Just a lot of talking about papers. I
think they tied my hands behind my
back. My head is knocked off.                       2.6

~More solid?~ No.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

~AB.~                                               2.6

~C.~ Men in army with their
lances, on horses. They gallop.                     2.7
A lot of little hills.

1:11

One of these men in armor I think
is me. No longer on the horse.
Suddenly come to the place I was
looking for. It was a beautiful garden.
I saw a

                712  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

woman. I was looking at her.
I was furious with her. I was very
angry. Two men came along and
told me I must come with them.

                                                    2.6

I went off with two men behind me.
I hated her. I walked into a big
building.

                                                    2.6

~D.~ Men sprinkling something on
the papers.
My hands are tied behind my back.
The chopper comes down and
chopped me on my neck.
And that's all.                                     2.3

~More solid?~ No, it's erasing.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ A lot of activity.
Men on horses.

1:47                                                2.75

Suddenly I'm alone. I walked
through a garden. I saw a woman
there. I spoke to her but she didn't
look up. I was furious.                             2.7

She didn't look up. Two men come in
and take me away. I went into a big
building.                                           2.6

Man in dark clothes. My arms were
tied behind my back. My head on the
block. They chop up my head and
that was all.                                       2.4

~More solid?~ No.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

~AB~. Man in armor ready to
mount their horses.

1:52                                                2.4

One of the soldiers was climbing.
That was me. I tried to get to some
place; beautiful garden. I saw a
woman.

~C.~                                                2.5

I was furious with her. Two guards
came in and took me away. Got in a
big building. Men were writing some

TIME                                                TA

things, sprinkling a lot of things.
My arms tied behind my back.
Head on the block. Chopper came.

                                                    2.2

~D.~ My head was chopped that's
what happened. That's why I got
the pain.                                           2.25

~More solid?~ No.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

Pc looks better.

~AB.~

~C.~ A lot of activity with soldiers. I
find myself without my horse climb-
ing up a hill making my way to some
place. Beautiful garden.                            2.3

There was a woman.

2:01                                                2.4

I walked to her, furious with her
because she betrayed me.

                                                    2.4

Two guards came to take me away.
I hated her. I walked to a big
building where they were writing.
My arms were tied behind my back.
The chopper came down to cut off
my head. I was dead.

~D.~                                                2.2

2:05                                                2.3

                                                    2.5

                                                    2.4

                                                    2.5

2:10

I think that woman was my wife.

                                                    2.25 }
		   } BD
F/N 2:10                                             2.0 }

2:10                                                2.0

I feel very good.

F/N INDICATED.

~That's it.~

Pc looks very fine. Afterwards
she found it curious she had run
the pain

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 713

TIME                                                TA

in her neck instead of the pain
in her back. She felt happy, and is
no longer interested in the pain in her

TIME                                                TA

back for the moment. That's why I
ended the session. She found it a
beautiful session.


                714 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 22/5/69
             or                        Time: 14:17
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :PM
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Pc smiling. No statement.)





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner: Sent by DAC Student Auditor.


TA position: 3.00              Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: F/N

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 715



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:PM            Date 22/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA  5.65 Time
                           Auditor


Goals and gains:
Happy pc.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Very.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
                                                 Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
4.5                                               Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
4.5 - 2.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
All the time thinking and talking. At the end
she felt good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Fine
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No           Yes                         No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No                             No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No                                  No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Pc said she was interested in pain in back.
After she ran the pain in her neck. She was no longer
interested in pain in her back.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.0                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 717


                Case 9
                [PICTURE#48] page 722


                718 BOOK THREE

                (Done after assessment)
                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: PW                                Date  29/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: MM                         No. of hours  10 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of assessment 1405  4.0        16       Goals:

End of assessment   1415  3.9





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 719

TIME                                                TA

~START OF ASSESSMENT~

1405                                                4.0

Teeth ache--small fall

Leg pain--very sm fall

Skin soreness--v sm rise

Carsick, fear--v sm rise

Doesn't bother pc
weariness--I haven't noticed it since
auditing.

Clean

Pc says: "None of those things
bother me anymore except skin
soreness, and mostly my sight.
Auditing has improved it somewhat
but it still bothers me."

~END OF ASSESSMENT~

1415                                                3.9

TIME                                                TA

29/4/69

ASSESSMENT HEALTH FORM

Teeth, ache--small fall

Leg damage--very small fall

Skin soreness--very small rise.

Carsick, fear--doesn't bother
pc--very small rise.

Weariness, "I haven't noticed it
since auditing."

                                                    4.0

Pc says none of the above bother
her anymore except her skin and
her sight.

(Suspect MULTIPLE ILLNESS.
Suggest another chain be found
and run on sight--blindness.)


                720 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 29/4/69
             or                        Time: 2:41
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Don't think I have anything to say, really.






------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 4.0              Pc indicators:

State of needle: Sluggish

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 721



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:             Date
Process run :Assessment   TA  .1 Time 10 min.
                          Auditor


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose - sluggish.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                                No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.9 - 4.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
pc happy
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
None given.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes, somewhat
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
4.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Folder to C/S. Suspect multiple illness;
maybe another chain on sight-blindness.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 723


                Case 10
                [PICTURE#49] page 724
                [PICTURE#50] page 729


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 725



                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BD                                Date  28/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: MM                         No. of hours  20 min.
                                     Total hours  20 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session    20:54    2.8       6        Goals:
Process R3R

1. Locate the incident
2. When was it?
3. Move to
4. Duration
5. Move to the beginning
of that incident.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the
incident to a point later.
8. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the inc.
    B. Tell me when you
    are there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the inc.
    D. Tell me what
    happened.

Item No.1 - Pain in my
ankle.                  20:56   2.5
Erased F/N              21:03   2.3

Item No.2 - Sore throat         2.3
Cognition F/N           21:16   2.5

That's it.
Very pronounced GIs.





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                726 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

2054                                                2.8

Item: pain in my ankle.

~1.~ When was 7 yrs old

~2.~ 14 April 1960

~3.~ Um

~4.~ 15 min.

~5.~ Um.

~6.~ I see myself--teacher friend.

~7.~ We're on a running trip.
I sprain my ankle.

~9.~ I lost the race.

~AB.~ I'm there

~C.~ Um

~D.~ Well, when I was running;
my attention was distracted, so I
tripped.

~Is the incident erasing?~

Um-hum. It's gone.             VGIs

2103    F/N INDICATED                               2.3

Item No. 2 sore throat.

~1.~ One month ago.

TIME                                                TA

~2.~ 12 March 1969.

~3.~ Yea

~4.~ 1 hr

~5.~ Yea

~6.~ Coming back from galley.

~7.~ Bob Medical Officer

21:11                                               2.7

Then talked to Bob, decided Aus-
tralia was a cool place to be. Sore
throat blew.

~9.~ I cognited on the fact that
I lived in a downtone area and
that was what keyed-in my sore
throat.

Cog         F/N           2115

See whenever I thought of Austra-
lia or if I wanted to go back, I'd pull
in this sore throat.

(Very pronounced GIs)

F/N INDICATED.

2116                                                2.5

~That's it.~


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 727



                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 28/4/69
             or                        Time: 2130
After session exam  :3.0
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BD
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
(laugh) Just looking bright-eyed. (Said nothing.)






------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 3.0              Pc indicators:

State of needle: Very loose needle, then F/N.
                 F/N indicated. VGIs (smiling)

Note any further data required by C/S: v

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     x

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                728 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BD             Date 28/4/69
Process run :R3R            TA .7  Time 20 min.
                            Auditor


Goals and gains:
Cog on sore throat
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Pretty good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Two
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Free--floating
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.3 - 2.7
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Yes, pc walked out enthused and happy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Smiling, cheerful.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes, on sore throat
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very happy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.5                                        Floating
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Folder to C/S
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 731


                Case 11
                [PICTURE#51] page 732
                [PICTURE#52] page 738


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 733



                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: CC                                Date  16/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: GR                         No. of hours  1hr. 50 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-            Results &
                        Reads      tivity            Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Find out if pc       START OF SESSION          Goals:
has been on  dope.
Assess som. before she
began to use that                               Fair
                                                indicators
Dn C/S 2, if not cont.                          Needle
                                                tight
R3R                  19:05   2.65    5

1. Locate inc that could
have caused (som or feeling)                    After
                                                session
                                                trim check
                                                TA 1.8 = 2.0

2. Date inc.
3. Move to
4. Estab dur.
5. Move to the beginning of
that inc.
6. What do you see?
7. Move thru the inc to a
point time later.
8. Ack - cont.
9. What happened? (ack)
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what
    happened.
(Repeat A to D as required)

END OF SESSION      20:55  1.65     5





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:
Per C/S asked pc if she had been on dope. LFDB 2.65
to 2.15. Pc answered - NO!



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                734  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~Start session~

1903                                                2.65

Ask pc if she had been on dope.

                                                    2.65 }
                                                         } BD
Answer "NO!"                                        2.15 }

Item:                                               (LFBD .50 BD)

My head, just heavy and massy in
front.

1911                                                2.0

~1.~ Pc locating an inc.

Pc having                                           1.8
trouble finding an inc.

                                                    1.85

Pc can't find one.

I've got this som. on now but can't
find an inc. I also have the PN in
spine and tried to run that last
session, but didn't get anywhere.
I'm interested in this head som. but
the spine thing last session couldn't
find earlier inc and it didn't run and
I don't want to go through that
again (not running.)

1925                                                1.75

Pc feels head som, is the right item.

Pc is having another look for inc.

1928                                                1.75

I found time when I had it but it
couldn't have been the cause.

~2.~ It was afternoon in my father's
room, in '59.

~3.~

~4.~ Half hour.

~5.~

~6.~ My father's room.

~7.~

~9.~ I had been                                     1.65
in room reading fell asleep, woke up
and head was heavy.                                 1.7

~A.~                                                1.65

~B.~ OK

~C.~ Yeah                                           1.65

~D.~ Same thing not erasing

1939

TIME                                                TA

~Earlier inc?~

~1.~ Can't find any.                                1.75

1942                                                1.75

~AB.~ OK

~C.~ Hmmm

~D.~ Same thing as before only saw it
more real. It's getting more solid.

~Earlier inc?~

No can't find one                                   1.65

I'm having trouble really. I'm
moving back but all I see is
pleasure moments.

~A.~ Smiles.

~B.~ Hmmm

~C.~ Hmmm

1950 (yawn)                                         1.65

~D.~ Same thing, I'm just seeing more
of it.

Not erasing.

~Earlier inc?~

Pc looking for earlier inc.

Comm lag

2005

A day at the ocean.

2005                                                1.65

~2.~ Not sure.

Somewhere between '53 and '55.

~3.~

~4.~ About a minute.                                1.5

~5.~

~6.~ The ocean.

~7.~

~9.~ Mother was holding band. I fell
down, a wave came over my head.

~AB.~                                               1.5

~C.~

~D.~ I jumped away, fell down; a wave
came over my head. I don't know if
it's getting solid or erasing.

~AB.~                                               1.5

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing

Seems to be erasing.

~AB.~

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 735

TIME                                                TA

~C.~

2012                                                1.5

~D.~ Same thing.

Seems to be erasing.

~AB.~ OK

~C.~ Hmm

2014                                                1.5

~D.~ Same thing

No, can't be erasing. It's still the
same.

~Earlier inc?~

Looking for earlier. As needle starts
to rise pc squirms, then needle
falls, then rises (squirm)

Fall

1820                                                1.5

Comm lag

(laugh) I remember more about the
last inc and can't find an earlier one.

(Pc still looking)

2024                                                1.8

Comm lag

2030

Can't find one.

~AB.~ OK

~C.~ Hm

~D.~ Same thing. I remember the
undertow. Yes, it's erasing.

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. Yes, it's erasing.

~AB.~

~C.~

2033                                                1.65

~D.~ Same thing
Seems to be erasing.

~AB.~

~C.~ Hmm

D. Same thing
Guess it's erasing. Can't see it as
clearly.

TIME                                                TA

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. It's erasing.

2035                                                1.8

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. yeah, erasing.

~AB.~

2036                                                1.5

~C.~ Hmm

~D.~ Same thing.
It's erasing.

2039                                                1.5

~AB.~ (yawn)

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. I'm not sure if it's
erasing. It hasn't changed much.
Not more solid, not changing. Guess
it's erasing.

2043                                                1.5

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. Yeah, it's erasing.
I think so. Not very much.

2044                                                1.5

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. Not erasing any
more.

~Earlier ine?~

Looking for earlier.

Comm lag                                            1.65

2054                                                1.7

Can't find any.

                                                    1.5

~End Session~

2055                                                TA 1.65


                736 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 16/5/69
             or                        Time: 20:58
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :CC
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
The session was cool. I found a chain and knew it was
a real chain. It didn't erase.




------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner: Sent by D.A.C. Student


TA position: 2.00              Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: Loose, then tight and dirty.

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 737



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:CC            Date 16/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA 2.00 Time 1 hr, 50 min.
                           Auditor GR


Goals and gains:
Pc got nowhere, couldn't find anything
on chain but two locks.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Not well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
No go. Pc wouldn't look or was withholding.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Was clean, then tightened up.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
1.7                                        to 1.95
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
1.7 - 2.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Not noticeable.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Fair
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull

------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
None mentioned.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
None mentioned
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes, Pc couldn't find any incidents
earlier than a lock.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes, fair.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
1.85                                        Tight
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
Lock wouldn't erase or key out and nothing earlier.
The item run had the largest read on list LFBD also
had pc's interest. As ordered in C/S at start of
session, I asked pc if she had been on dope.
Pc said "No!!", but got LF + BD 2.65 to 2.1 on
question.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
I ended session and sent pc to examiner as chain
wasn't running and we were only grinding away on
a lock getting nowhere.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 739


                Case 12
                [PICTURE#53] page 740
                [PICTURE#54] page 745


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 741


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: MD                                Date  21/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor:                            No. of hours  1 hr. 5 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
R3R                 1005  3.2          6        Ran item of
                                                interest to
                                                pc
                                                - "severe
                                                pressure on
                                                back"
                                                Ran chain
                                                to birth -
                                                cog,
                                                erasure
                                                and F/N.
START OF SESSION
MO report to get exact
description and then assessed
for interest and longest read

R3R                 1047  2.8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
    A
    B
    C
    D

SOLID OR ERASING?
    EARLIER               F/N

END OF SESSION      1110  2.6          6
                                                Trim Check
                                                = 1.95





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                742 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

10:05                                               3.2

(Needle loose)

(Went over items on MO report to
get "feeling"

See report.

10:30                                               2.8

Still getting somatics on MO form.
Item selected by both meter and
interest.

"Severe pressure on back"

10:47                                               2.80

~1.~ Yeah

~2.~ September, 1960

~3.~

~4.~ 30 sec.

~5.~

~6.~ Sitting at a light at intersection
--waiting to make left turn--just
turned wheel.

~7.~

10:50                                               2.80

(Needle loose)

~9.~ Truckload of concrete rammed
me in back. My car went thru two
lanes of traffic. I ended underneath
dashboard. Crowd said I must be
dead. Got out of car with help, just
wanted to see what happened.

10:54                                               2.85

~A B C~

~D.~ Same thing. Truck driver very
concerned; he's worried about losing
job. Cop very reasonable--gives guy
ticket for "failure to yield right of
way."

~Solid?~

Yes.

~Earlier?~

Yes.

10:56                                               3.00

(Comm lag)

I've got one.

~2.~ Nov 21, 1947

~3.~

~4.~ About 2 min.

TIME                                                TA

~5.~

~6.~ Grade school, front porch.

~7.~

~8.~ Must be 7 or 8 of us. Let out
of class--made for front door. Snow on
ground. Race across porch, jump--miss,
heel landed on edge of step,
landed on bottom. Back on step, then
roll into snow. Patty said I must
be dead.

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Same thing. Principal came out.
There is a blank spot there.

~Solid? or~

~Erase?~ --Solid.

~Earlier?~ Yes.

~2.~ Oct 29, 1935

~3.~

~4.~ About 5 min.

~5.~

~6.~ 11:04                                          3.25

Can't find any pictures but I got--
hmm. I'd just been born. Doctor got
a hand under back.

~7.~

Five minutes later it's fine.
Skipped--pc moving too fast already
back at begin --

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Doctor holding me up--bending
back--that slob "old Doc Benson"
                                                    3.25 }
LFBD                                                     }
                                                    2.75 }

                          F/N                       Cog

Tell pc of F/N

11:10                                               2.6

~Erasing?~

It's gone.                   F/N

~That's it. Your needle is floating.~

~End of Session~

Pc laughing and GIs.

To Examiner.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 743



                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 21/5/69
             or                        Time: 11:17
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :
Last grade attained :OT I
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Just had a beautiful session.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner: DAC Auditor


TA position: 3.25              Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: Dirty

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                744 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:             Date 21/5/69
Process run :R3R          TA 1:05 Time 1 hr. 5 min.
                          Auditor


Goals and gains:
Find a somatic that interests pc. Went over MO report
getting feelings of somatics - assessed - got read
and interest on "severe pressure on back."
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Good!
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Excellent
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.2 - 2.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Good, then very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Yes         Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                           Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown

------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.6                                            F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Run next item on MO form: "Fear of not being able
to breathe" or return to Scn processing. Pc runs
smoothly where the exact description of SOM is
run.
NOTE: On way to examiner, pc talked to auditor -
he may have also looked at his TA on meter
when leaving session.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 747


                Case 13
                [PICTURE#55] page 752


                748 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BM                                Date  16/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: SG                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours   10 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-        Results &
                        Reads      tivity        Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
START OF SESSION
                     5:50  4.4      8            Goals: None

Dianetic assist on lifting
weight on ship.                                   TA very
                                                  hight. 2.25
                                                  Pc smiling
                                                  and calm!
                                                  No F/N.
2. When was it?
3. Move to... (date).
4. What is the duration of
the incident?
5. Move to the beginning of
that inc.
Close your eyes.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the inc. to
a point... later.
8. Okay, continue.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what happened.

END OF SESSION       6:00  5.25     8             Meter
                                                  Trim
                                                  Check
                                                  TA = 2





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 749

TIME                                                TA

Dianetic assist on lifting heavy
weight.

~Start of Session~

Time = 5:50                                         4.2

~2.~ Monday                                         4.5

~3.~ Yes F                                          4.8

~4.~ ±5 min

~5.~                                                5.0

~6.~ Holding up meat. Put the meat
down. Tried to lift it up, felt pain in
my side. Dropped it again.

~AB.~

~C.~ Yes.

~D.~ We were lifting meat off the dock
onto the ship.

Stood up                                            5.2

Had a pain in my side.

(Needle rising)

5:55                                                5.3

~It is erasing?~                                    5.3

Yes.

TIME                                                TA

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~ Yes.

~D.~ F

Lifting meat pulling it up on
gangway. I tried to
lift it up. Felt a pain in
my side. Side was sore.

5:57                                                5.3

(Needle tight)

(Needle still tight)

~Is there earlier inc?~

(Pc thinking) No

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~ Yes.

~D.~ Pulling meat, pick it up, pain in
my side.

(Needle tight)

~Is this one erased?~

Yes. OK F                                           5.25

(Needle stuck pc smiling.

~End of Session~                                    6.00


                750 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date:
             or                        Time: 1805
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BM
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Pc said nothing.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 3.75              Pc indicators: Smiling, but seemed
                                              forced.

State of needle: Rising

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 751



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BM                     Date
Process run :Dianetic Assist R3R    TA 0.25 Time 10 min.
                                    Auditor GS


Goals and gains:
None.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Rising
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
NO
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes, 5.3                                            No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
4.2 - 5.3
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Calm and smiling.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No            No                           No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
She looked good, but was calm.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
5.25                                Rising, then fall and loose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
High TA. Pc for Scient. Review. I think the engram
run out yesterday was the basic of this chain.
So overrun.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 753


                Case 14
                [PICTURE#56] page 760


                754 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: FJM                               Date  21/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: SN                         No. of hours  1 hr. 10 min.
                                     Total hours



                                                 TOTAL TA = 7

Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
R3R
START OF SESSION                                   Goals:
                                                   Pc
                                                   cheerful,
                                                   bright,
                                                   smiling.
                    1620  2.9       6
Assessment          1627  2.6
R3R                 1628  2.7

1. Locate an incident that
could have caused
2. Date
3. Move to
4. Duration
5. Move to beginning of
incident.
6. What do you see?
7. Move thru incident to
a point duration later.
8.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to beginning
    B. Tell me when there.
    C. Scan thru the inc.
    D. Tell me what happened.

F/N                 1700  2.3
F/N                 1730  2.3

That's it.                                         TC 1.8





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 755

TIME                                                TA

~Start of Session~

1620                                                2.9

Assessment

1627                                                2.6

R3R Grief

~1.~ 1628                                           2.7

Comm lag    Yes

Needle loose, clean

~2.~ Feb 13, 69 LF

~3.~ Pc eyes closed LF

~4.~ 5 min

Ok

~6.~ Rob seated in aft lounge.

~7.~ Pc quiet

OK

1632                                                2.6

~9.~ I felt griefy

                                                    LF

Burning in eyes

                                                    F

Tired

(Pc in grief--tears
Eyelids fluttering.)

Pc breathing is hard.

~AB.~ OK

1635                                                2.6

~C.~                                                LF

Pc opening mouth, licking lips.
Tears gone.

Licked lips

~D.~                                                LFBD

I'm confused

                                                    F

Still tired

1638                                                2.7

Pc took deep breath

                                                    LF

                                                    LF

Pc smiled

It doesn't matter. I don't care as
long as he's happy.

~Is it becoming more solid or erasing?~

Pc smiling.

It must be erasing.

TIME                                                TA

Nothing is changed.

~Is it more solid or erasing?~

It is erasing.

I feel better about it.

1640                                                2.5

1643                                                2.7

~AB.~                                               LFBD

Deep breath

~C.~ OK

                                                    LF

Pc looks sad

~D.~ He made a decision and then I
made a decision. I ended cycle.

~More solid or erasing?~

I think it's solid.

~Earlier inc?~

OK

~2.~ Sept 19, 1967

~3.~

~4.~ 5 min.

~5.~                                                F

~6.~                                                F

Joey seated at table.

~7.~ OK

~Move thru incident to a point 5 min
later.~

~8.~

Pc in grief

1647                                                2.6

                                                    LF

(tears)

~9.~ Pc                                             LF

(Blew out)

I'm turned on grief. Eyes burning.
Tired. I don't care.

1648                                                2.75

Tired of holding onto something.
Didn't want me.

                                                    2.75 }
                                                         } LFBD
1649                                                 2.5 }

(Tears)

Pc opened eyes said OK
(Grief)

Little needle movement.

                756 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

1650                                                2.75

Hard to breathe.

(Pc sniffed)

1651                                                2.7

I'm just tired.

~More solid or erasing?~

Solid

                                                    LFBD

1652                                                2.4

~Earlier inc?~

Yes

1654                                                2.8

Pc looking; eyelids fluttering. Pc
sniffed. Nose red.

                                                    LF

                                                    2.8 }
                                                        }
1955                                                2.6 }

OK                                                  LFBD

~2.~ Jan 2, 1959

~3.~

~4.~ 5 min.

~5.~

~6.~ Parents.

~7.~

Needle loose

~9.~ 1656                                           2.4

I got a lump in my throat. Sniff
SOM, headache.

Tired                                               F

1658                                                2.65

                                                    F

                                                    2.5

I always had someone making my
decisions for me. Just thought I
couldn't make decisions. Go into
agreement with their decisions.
That's it.

F/N

1700                                                2.3

Indicated.

Pc indicators in.

That's what you call an ARC break of
long duration.

TIME                                                TA

~Is there earlier similar inc that
could have caused grief?~

Yes.

~2.~ June 11, 1956.

No, let me check.

~3.~ OK

~4.~ 5 min.

~5.~ OK

~6.~ Swing.

~7.~

~8.~

OK

~9.~ Pc sighs.

I'm just tired.

Grief.

1706                                                3.0

                                                    LFBD

1707                                                2.6

Pc sighed. Face red, grief as if been
crying. Sniffed.

I just got a picture when I was hit in
the head.
I was in the water.

Pc smiled.

I come up and called my friends.
Nobody comes. I did not know what
to do.

Pc laughed.

1710                                                2.25

Mainly because I didn't know what
happened. I never expressed how I
felt about anything. I just let people
pick it up on a different level.

                                                    2.75

                                                    LFBD

                                                    2.5

Needle very loose, clean

~AB.~ OK

~C.~                                                LFBD }
                                                         }
                                                     2.5 }

~D.~ Numbness

1713                                                2.75 }
Grief, sniff                                             }
                                                         }
1714                                                  2.3}

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 757

TIME                                                TA

~More solid or erasing?~

Solid.

~Earlier similar?~

1715                                                2.75

Pc very still, looking.

1717 Yes                                            2.9

~2.~

                                                    LF

2 June 47

~3.~ OK.

~4.~ 5 min

1725                                                2.6

~5.~

~6.~ Aud goofed                                     LF

~7.~

~8.~                                                LFBD

Pc smiling. Hit in head with rock.

                                                    LF

Rest of crowd running up to look,
did not hear me cry. I did not know
what to do. No one to help me.

(Pc giggled)

Felt too many things happening.
No one to help. I couldn't make

TIME                                                TA

decision.

(Pc coughed)

                                                    LF

                                                    LF

1726                                                2.4

1727                                                2.7

(Pc softly smiling.)

Pc raised up head. Took deep breath.

Pc laughed

~9.~ Pc smiling. I think I ran out my
grief.

F/N

1730                                                2.3

I must have. It's easy to breathe.
Not even tired.

(Pc looks cheerful, smiling.)

                    F/N INDICATED

~That's it.~

(On way to examiner pc said,
"You know what this feels like?
When I got my ARC Straightwire
release--I was walking on air.)


                758 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 21/5/69
             or                        Time: 17:33
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :EJM
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

(laughs) What can I say? Great! F/N





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner: Sent by DAC student
                         after session.


TA position: 2.8              Pc indicators: Very good

State of needle: F/N

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 759



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:EMJ            Date 21/5/69
Process run :R3R            TA     Time 1hr. 10 min.
                            Auditor SN


Goals and gains:
Pc said ran out of grief, it's easy to breathe,
no longer tired.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Excellent
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Effective.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes, 2.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose, clean
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.25 - 3.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc rather apathetic. Yes, cheerful.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Yes, grief, apathy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, pink now. Was a little dull.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No            Yes                        No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                            Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes, so far.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.3                                            F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Folder to C/S
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 761


                Case 15
                [PICTURE#57] page 770


                762 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: CD                               Date  23/5/69
                         No. of intensive hours
Auditor: BD                        No. of hours  2 hrs. 48 min.
                                    Total hours 2 hrs. 48 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-       Results &
                        Reads      tivity       Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is session.  13:38  3.1      3             Goals:
R-factor                                        Nothing
                                                happened
Added to list reassessed
R3R               13:59  4.0      3             Something
                                                very out
                                                here.

                                                Please
                                                check
                                                worksheets.

                                                I checked
                                                out
                                                previous
                                                sessions
                                                and
                                                there seems
                                                to be a
                                                pattern
                                                with
                                                this pc.
                                                He is not
                                                running
                                                at all.
                                                I followed
                                                procedures
                                                as
                                                indicated
                                                by C/S, but
                                                made no
                                                difference.
1. Locate an inc...
2. Date
3. Move to date
4. Duration
5. Move to begin of inc at
date.
6. What see?
7. Move thru inc. to pt...
later
8.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to begin of inc.
    B. Tell me when there.
    C. Scan thru to end of
    inc.
    D. Tell me what
    happened.

That's it.           14:53

(Pc had to go to
bathroom immediately)

This is the session  15:05  3.0           3
That's it.           16:26  3.0           3




------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 763

TIME                                                TA

~Start of session.~

13:38                                               3.1

R-factor--add to list, Reassess
and run R3R

Ind. item--sen. of falling in space.

13:59                                               4.0

~1.~ OK.

~2.~ Jan 2, 1964

~3.~ Yeah,

~4.~ 2 hrs.

~5.~ All right

~6.~ I'm asleep in bed and all of a
sudden these wings appear and a
cliff, and I find myself falling. I start
jumping in bed--still falling. Any-
way, that's what I see.

~7.~

~9.~ I just keep falling--hear mother's
voice. Woke up and that's it. Scared
to death.

                                                    Body
                                                    movement

~AB.~ All right                                     3.8

~C.~ All right

~D.~ I was sleeping one night--saw
wings at end of cliff. Start falling,
falling--faster and faster. Mother
came in, called my name and I woke
up right in the middle of falling.

~Erasing?~ No.                                      4.2

~More solid?~ Yes.

~Earl. Sim. ?~

14:06                                               4.1

~1.~ Comm lag.

All right.

~2.~ I think it was . . . 1948-49

~3.~ All right.

~4.~ About, 3 hrs. long.                            4.25

~5.~

~6.~ I see these trees around us;
one of my friends and I, winding pathway
in forest like place.

~7.~

~8.~

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ There was my friend and
I--he was much bigger than I.
Running from other guys; they had
a gun and real thick twine. Chasing
us. Kept on running and running;
ran down path. Finally, friend passed
out. Ran to see where he was. Got
back to see two guys throwing friend
off cliff. Falling, falling. I passed out.
Weird feeling of falling, and falling.

                                                    4.3

~A.~

~B.~ All right.

~C.~ All right.

~D.~ Same thing as before.
With friend, taller than I was.
Running from two guys with
guns, ropes, etc. Ran and ran.

                                                    4.2

Finally, friend passed out and I
kept going. When I realized what
happened I went back to see friend
thrown over cliff. I pushed those two
off cliff. They fell. And I felt falling
and falling, etc.                                   Body
                                                 4.0
                                                    motion

~Erasing?~

Shaking me up, really.

More solid.

~Earl Sim.?~

14:21                                               4.1

~1.~ Comm lag                                       4.2

                                                    4.25

                                                    4.3

All right.

~2.~ 1932 (in that area)

~3.~ Yeah.                                          Body
~4.~ About 15 min.                               3.9
                                                    motion
~5.~ All right.

~6.~ See cable stretched across two
ledges over a long sloping waterfall
--looks rough at bottom.

~7.~

                764  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

                                                    3.9
                                                       BD
                                                    3.7

~9.~ I was on this . . . these guys
had just stretched cable between two
mtns. Tight at each end. I was elected
to walk across. I was tightrope
walker. Rope around me. Had hold of
pole and started to walk across.
Wind started blowing and I started
swinging, and then . . .                            3.9
I slip, let go of one side of pole, grab
other side, fall on wire--get across
wire. I don't fall.

                                                    3.8

~AB.~ All right.                                    3.7

~C.~

~D.~ Mound of dirt on one side and
pole. This guy and girl.                            3.8
I'm watching this guy go across this
cable. He goes across                               3.75
and all of a sudden, he gets caught
in wind and he fell and that was it.

~Erasing?~

Yeah.

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ All right.                                     3.8

~D.~ There was third guy on mountain
and wire stretched across--cable not
wire. He was . . . No, I was going to
meet him. We met at middle of
cable. Overbalanced                                 Body
                                                 3.6
                                                    move
He fell. I made it across the rest of
wire.

~Erasing?~

Yeah.

14:35                                               3.6

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~

~D.~ On this (clear throat) mountain
top, two mountains, cable stretched
between.                                            3.8
My friend Eric on other side and I'm
on this side. We decide to meet
halfway.                                            3.7

TIME                                                TA

He's a little squirt, but can sure
run fast. And I just fall, keep on
falling, don't stop falling. Then . . .
That's what happened.

~Erasing?~ No, getting more solid.

~Earl. Sim. ?~

~1.~ Comm lag                                       3.6

                                                    3.75

Yes.                                                3.8

~2.~ March 2, 1902

~3.~ Yeah                                           3.9

~4.~ 3 min.

~5.~ All right.

~6.~ This lion                                      4.0

~7. ~

~8.~ Comm lag                                       4.1

(Falling asleep)

(~Repeat command~) All right.

Comm lag.

OK (Fall asleep)                                    4.1 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.9 }

~9.~ I fell.

(Falling asleep)

~AB.~ OK

~C.~ Yeah.

~D.~ I was in this airplane I think,
yeah, going past this canyon. All
sorts of rock stone figures.
                                                    Body
                                                3.75
                                                    move

All of a sudden, props died.
Plane starts diving. We all pull
ejector parachute. Heat caught
balloons and drifting us up again.
Out of heat, drifting with wind. Then
started falling. Hit and that was it.

(Pc has to go to bathroom immediately.
Bowel movement.)

14:53 ~That's it.~                                  3.7

15:05 ~This is the Session~                         3.0

~A. Move to the beginning of inc. of
March 2, 1902.~

~B.~

~C.~ Comm lag.                                      3.5

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 765

TIME                                                TA

~D.~ I was in the airplane I think,
yeah. right. and, um . . .                          3.75
we were searching for these two
guys. We started chasing them down
this pathway. We chased these guys
off the pathway. Other guy took a shot
at us with rifle. Hit airplane and caused
it to go out of control. Started falling,
falling, falling. Blew our bodies to bits,
and that's what happened.

                                                    3.7

~Erasing?~

Yeah.

Feel like it's erased.                              3.6

Feel it's cool.

(Smiles)                                            3.5

~Earl. Sim?~

~1.~ Comm lag.                                      3.6

                                                    3.7

All right                                           3.75

~2.~ Was, uh, dunno . . .
somewhere around . . . comm lag.                    3.7

(falling off)

(~Repeat aud. question~)

March 2, 1870.

~3.~ All right.

~4.~ About 3 hrs or so.

~5.~ Right.

~6.~ I see a vulture, not like a regular
vulture you have here. It's a big
thing. Well, there's this guy in this
tree with me. Keeps telling me to
lie still, be quiet, go to sleep and it
won't get you.

~7.~ All right.                                     3.9

~9.~ I'm with this friend of mine. In
jungle-like place--few trees. Vul-
ture chased me. We were running
--he was huge. Tried to get me.
Threw a rock and hit him in jaw. He
flew away. Friend and I went to
tree, started to build a hut. It dove
at tree, but didn't hit tree. Friend

TIME                                                TA

said, "Go to sleep, it won't hurt you.
So I sleep. Him too. Thing dove
down, knocked over hut. Friend dead.
Bird ate my body. Chewing out head,
ripped out my guts. Left the rest.

15:26                                               4.1

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ Comm lag                                       4.1 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.9 }

~C.~ (cough)

~D.~ Ok. This friend and me running
from gigantic bird. We built hut.
He said, "Go to sleep and it won't
hurt you." We did. Thing came
down, broke hut, split my head,
killed friend. Started chewing on
my head. He grabbed hold of                         4.0
my guts and ripped them out and
that was it.                                        4.0
Whew! Nice to be                                    3.8
back here.                                          3.2

                                                    Lot of
                                                    body move.

He says: ("Cog")--Hey, that might
be the reason                                       3.1
why I overslept in engine room.

~Inc. erasing??~

Yeah, it is.                                        3.1

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ All right.

~D.~ This big bird (yawn)                           3.25
swooped down from sky at me.
Hurled rock at him. We fell to
ground. Bird came back, bits                        3.4
tree, then left. Friend said stay
asleep, he won't bother you. We
both fell asleep. Bird came and
broke branches. I fell on rock, split
head open. Friend                                   3.5
died from impact. Bird came by and
ate my head. Chewed my eyeballs,
                                                    3.6
my ear and all the bits of meat on

                766 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

my face. Ripped from top of chest
to between my legs. Literally ripped
out my guts. And flew away and
left me.                                            3.75
And that was it.                                    Body
                                                 3.6
                                                    move

~Erasing?~

Yeah.

Pc says, "Difficult to confront."

Inform him that body                                3.1
movement isn't recorded.                            [!!!]

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ (Falling asleep)                               3.3

Comm lag.                                           3.5

OK.

~D.~ Same as before. Friend and I
walking down this path. Bird came
down and attacked us. Threw stone
at him, hit him in mouth and he flew
away. Made hut up in tree. Friend
said, "If he comes just fall asleep,
just stay asleep (falling asleep) and
. . . bird came back, hit top of tree,
split head on razor rock. Bird came
back half hour later and chewed up
my head, hit my stomach open and
left me there.                                      3.4

~Erasing?~

No, more solid.

~Earl. sim.~

15:50                                               3.3

~1.~ Comm lag.

Comm lag.                                           3.4

Comm lag.                                           3.5

Comm lag.                                           3.6

Comm lag.                                           3.7

~2.~ 14 . . . I don't                           3.5 Body
know . . . 1400 or                                  move
something (Yawn)

1463

~3.~ Right                                     3.25 Body
~4.~ About 50 min.                                  move

~5.~ Where the hell is the beginning?

Comm lag.

TIME                                                TA

(Staring out, somewhere else.)

All right.                                          3.5

~6.~ I see snakes, lizards, cactus,                 3.4
desert sand.

~7.~ OK.

~8.~ All right.                                     3.3

~9.~ I was in . . .                                 Body
                                                 3.1
                                                    move

there was this extremely bright cave
and I walked into it and there was
this hypnotic effect. One thing men-
tioned over and over again. Images
of lizards and snakes and desert.
Going round and round. Felt like I
16:05                                               3.5
was dehydrating. And                            3.3 Body
uh, kept going                                      move
around in circles--an image of fal-
ling. Kept hearing this. Start feeling
lighter and lighter. Started feeling
like I didn't know what was going on.
Slowly layed myself down and I just
went out. All of a sudden this little
rat bit me on ankle and gave   me
infection in right leg, which                       3.25
grows bigger than my left  leg.
Packed mud on it to let it dry it.
Then fell asleep.

~A.~ Don't know if that's the be-
ginning.

~B.~ Yeah, OK.

16:10

~C.~ All right.

~D.~ Walked into this cave,                         3.3
very bright. Kept hearing one thing,
can't remember what it was. Rat
bit me on right leg,                            3.1 Body
                                                    move
and ran away. Put mud on it, let it
dry out. Lay down, then                             3.25
woke up.

More solid.

~Earl. Sim. ?~

~1.~ Right.

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 767

TIME                                                TA

~2.~ Uh . . . comm lag.                             3.3

Yr. 1000

~3.~ All right.

~4.~ About 10 minutes

~5.~

~6.~ I see a man with club in hand.

~7.~ All right.

~8.~ Yep.

~9.~ Walking along, had boomerang
and big club draped around shoulder
and big slingshot. This idiot takes
whack at my head, misses, falls. I
pull out slingshot, he kicks it out of
my hand. Takes big swing and hits
me under chin; tears neck open a
little bit. All of a sudden,                        3.5
fall off cliff and that's it.                   3.2 Big
                                                    Body

TIME                                                TA

Have an awful headache.                             Move

~A.~ Right.

~B.~

~C.~ All right.

~D.~ On plateau, got club slingshot.
This guy comes along and takes a
swing and I pull out my slingshot.
He kicks it out of my hand and rips
my gut open and I fall. That's it.                  3.1

~Erasing?~

Yeah, but fingers hurt like hell.                   [!!!]

~Dave, before we go any further, are
you interested in continuing this
session?~

No, uh, I feel like I'm just picking off
engram after engram.

16:26 ~That's it.~                                  3.0


                768 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Apollo
Before session exam :                  Date: 23/5/69
             or                        Time: 16:31
After session exam  :
Pc, Pre-OT name     :CD
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I kept on running through one incident after another and
nothing was happening. Then he finally asked me if I
was interested in running an incident and I wasn't.
I guess that's what's the matter.



------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner: Sent by DAC auditor
                         after the session.


TA position: 2.7              Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: Dirty

Note any further data required by C/S: None

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:     v

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 769



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:CD             Date 23/5/69
Process run :R3R            TA 1.8 Time 16:53
                            Auditor BD


Goals and gains:
Pc doesn't seem to have goal; not really
interested.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Not well
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Ineffective
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Dirty throughout.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                         occassionally
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.0 - 4.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Came in fairly eager, indifferent to process, bored,
left session saying it had been good. (??)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Okay, looks healthy enough.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No                                       Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Said there was one; didn't see it myself.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Said so (??)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
3.0                                        Dirty.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
Something is out with the pc. After checking the pc's
folder a second time, I am convinced the pc is
fabricating; he either doesn't understand what
he is supposed to be doing or has a huge block to
running. Please check this out.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
To C/S. I definitely suggest GF to find out
what is the matter.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 771


                Case 16
                [PICTURE#58] page 777


                772 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: KJ                                Date  20/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: MP                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours  1.36 hr.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-        Results &
                        Reads      tivity        Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
R3R                                              Goals:

1. Locate an incident that
could have caused...                             Pc
                                                 beginning
                                                 very
                                                 frightened.
2. Date the incident.
3. Move to...
4. Duration
5. Move to the beginning
of that incid.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the incid.
to a point later
8. Okay, continue                                End pc
                                                 looked
                                                 better
                                                 F/N
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incid.
    D. What happened.

This is the session      1155   3.1      6
End of session           1216   2.75     6
This is the session      1:00   3.5
End of session           2:15   2.7




------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 773

TIME                                                TA

~This is the Session~

11:55                                               3.1

Pc said hungry and wanted to eat.
She puts down the cans.

~End of session.~

1216                                                2.75

Feeling of fear

~This is the Session~

Pc felt better

1:00                                                3.5

~1.~ Dark place.

Sitting flat on the ground,
dark, hot.                                          3.25

Sitting cross-legged down on the
floor. All is dark.

~2.~ Too dark to date--its 1875

1:04                                                2.9

~3.~ OK                                             3.0

                                                    3.25

~4.~ I don't know--hours

~5.~ Yes                                            3.75

~6.~ Dark hole.

People sitting around me on the
floor. I can't see them, everything
dark.

1:10                                                3.3 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    2.9 }

I'm tied with my arms behind.

~7.~

1:12                                                2.8

~8.~ Getting very hot                               2.75
Terribly frightened.                                2.7

~9.~ I'm being burned, oh!

~AB.~ Dark

~C.~

~D.~ People were sitting around on
the floor listening to something.
Judges--I was                                       2.5
tied on a pole. My arms tied behind
my back on a pole. Then they started
burning. I was terribly afraid. Didn't
know why they burned me. Felt very
sad, very upset

TIME                                                TA

1:10                                                2.3

~More solid?~

No.

~Erasing?~ Yes.

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~                                                2.7

                                                    2.7

~D.~ Big hole. People in the
shadow . . . . can't see them,
too dark. Standing on a small platform.
Table with three men. Other people
in darkness, talking, talking. Me in
the light.

1:25                                                2.2

I feel frightened, nervous. Then I'm
tied on a pole. My hands behind the
pole. Feel the heat of flames.
Suddenly feel very sad. I felt sad
because people were burning me,
should never have done it.                          2.2

~Erasing?~ Yes.

~AB.~

~C.~ Big hole in the middle of platform
with me standing on a long table
with three men. Light behind us on
the wall, many men.

1:32                                                2.6

Thirsty men.
Three men at table are                              2.3
speaking for me.
In the crowd, common people,
criminals, brutal people. They're
accusing me of being a witch. Stupid.
Now I'm tied on the pole.                           2.4
They burning me. Angry that they
could do that to me, terribly
frightened.
I move away from my body, to take
a look. I feel sad. They shouldn't
have burned me.

                                                    2.3 }
                                                        }BD
1:37                                                2.2 }

~D.~ Three men speaking for me.

                                                    2.3

                774 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

Other man very angry. Tied on the
pole; they burned me. So terribly
afraid. I was so sad.                               2.6
They shouldn't have done it.

~1. Earlier similar?~                               2.5

Yes.                                                2.6

Lovely day and mountains beautiful
scenery.

1:41                                                2.7

~2.~ 1602

~3.~ Yes                                            2.7

~4.~ I don't know.                                  2.9
Just looking down in the valley.

~5.~                                                2.75

~6.~ I'm standing. The beautiful day,
mountains. Everything quiet  and
peaceful.

1:45                                                2.8

~7.~

I'm getting afraid again.
So beautiful and so peaceful.
I'm so frightened.                                  2.2

~9.~ Someone pushed me over the
Cliff.

1:49                                                2.3

~AB.~

~C.~ Standing on a little hill. Every-
thing peaceful.                                     2.4
Suddenly very afraid; wanted to
move away. Before I could someone
pushed me over.

1:52                                                2.6

~D.~ Just being there, I think I'm
dead. Shame!

~Erasing/More solid?~

More solid.

                                                    2.5

~Earlier similar?~

Can't find one. Can only see black-
ness. I'm too nervous.                              2.25

TIME                                                TA

I don't think I can go on.                          2.3

                                                    2.5

Everything dark and black. Feeling
very, very frightened.

2:00                                                2.75

                                                    2.9

                                                    2.7

Everything's just black.                            2.6

~We'll run though this one                          2.75
once more.~

~AB.~ Top of little hill . . .
beautiful . . .
mountains. So peaceful.                             3.1

~C.~ Suddenly feel afraid. Somebody
pushes me over. I lie on the bottom
dead.
See myself, my back has been
broken. I'm dead. Someone pushed
me!

                                                    2.8 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    2.3 }

~D.~ Terrible.

~Erasing?~ Yes.                                     2.3

~AB.~ Standing on the hill. Mountains
around it.                                          2.6

~C.~ Suddenly somebody pushed me
over. Lie down on the bottom, my
back's been broken.
Death.

2:13                                                2.8

~D.~ I was standing on the hill looking
down. Someone                                       2.6
pushed me over. Landed down on
the bottom, with my back broken.

~Erasing?~ Yes, it's erased!                        F/N
             GIs                                    INDICATED.

~That's it.~                                        2.2

2:15                                                2.2


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 775



                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date: 20/5/69
Medical              :              Time: 14:00
Pc or Pre-OT name    :KJ
Last grade attained  :IV
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested: DAC

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

(none)






------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 3.0   Pc indicators: eyes glowing

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                776 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:KJ            Date 20/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA     Time
                           Auditor PM


Goals and gains:
End pc looked better
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Fine
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
One
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No                                            Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No                                             Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.4
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc frightened... End pc seemed better. Before pc
could find something, put down the cans and wanted
to eat. She felt better.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Fine.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull

------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown

------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown

------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.2                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:

------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 779


                Case 17
                [PICTURE#59] page 786


                780 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: WP                                Date  28/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours 1 hr. 42 min.
Auditor: MM                         No. of hours 1 hr. 20 min.
                                     Total hours 3 hr. 2 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-           Results &
                        Reads      tivity           Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session     14:34  2.8       16         Goals:
Process R3R

1. Locate an incident.
2. When was it.
3. Move to...
4. Duration
5. Move to the beginning at
(date).
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the incident
to a point -- later.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what
    happened.

Item I - sight blindness

Break - That's it.      16:16  3.25
This is the session     16:38  3.2         6
That's it.              17:58  3.0         6





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 781

TIME                                                TA

~This is the Session.~

14:34                                               2.8

Process R3R

Item No. 1 -- sight
              blindness

14:37

~1.~ Yes.

~2.~ 20 March 1692

~3.~ Yes.

~4.~ 1 hr.

~5.~ Umm.

~6.~ I'm going towards something. I
only see grayness.

14:43                                               3.5

~7.~ I'm groping away, something
behind me. Animal springs on my
shoulders, painful. I'm the lion.

                                                    3.6
I bit his neck. I eat him. That's it.

~8.~                                                3.5

~9.~ I seemed to have changed
valences.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ I seem to be walking in a hot
climate. Western clothes. Then
something happens. I only see gray-
ness. I become aware of danger
behind me. I try to get away from.

14:50                                               3.75

I think something's happened. I was
eaten.

~D.~ I don't know exactly what happened.
Seems like a sudden key-in.

~Is the incident erasing?~

I think it's still developing.                      [!!!]

~Earlier similar?~

Yes.

~1.~ I think I have it.

~2.~ 43 1/2 trillion years ago.

~3.~                                                3.8

~4.~ 22 hrs.

~5.~ I'm there.

6. Grayness is gone. Space ship on
left. People.

TIME                                                TA

~7.~ I get the impression of going
somewhere in this thing. We run into
some sort of clouds. The stuff comes
inside the ship. Gray water. It
gets into one's eyes.

~9.~ We ran                                         3.7 
                                                       BD
into something                                      3.2
which made my body unable to see.

15:06                                               3.5

~AB.~ I seem to be.

~C.~ I'm in a room; two people behind
me. There's some substance. It seems
to be pushing down on my neck.

15:15                                               3.8

(Pc shaking head.)

15:16                                               3.3

It's pushing my head off. I go to the
ship; a number of people coming
aboard. The substance seems to
cling to my eyes. I think it's acid. I
wash it out.

15:18                                               3.0

I committed an overt.

15:19                                               3.2

It is impossible for your eyes to get
better--something there.

~Is the incident erasing?~

Yes.

I'm not sure if there is an earlier one.

~Earlier similar?~                                  [!!!]

I think there might be but I can't pick
it up.

~AB.~ Yes.

15:30                                               3.3

~C.~ I agree to what they want. Being
blind is better than being dead.
Pressure from machine.

(Pc sneezed.)

She releases grayness. It's done tho'
I can't recognize these people again.
It's in my eyes. Wash it out, get to
a hospital. It can't be fixed, he said.
I shouted, it can.

                782 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

15:36                                               3.6 }
                                                        } BD
                                                   3.25 }

~D.~ I failed.

~Is the incident erasing?~

The first part has.

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~ I get this guy to get hold of this
fellow. If when he pulls lever stuff
sprays into his eyes.

~D.~ Well, I messed up a guy's life.

15:52                                               3.25

~Incident erasing?~

Um, it's fine now.

~Earlier similar?~

Yes.

~2.~ 45 trillion.

~3.~ Yes.

~4.~ A couple of years.

~5.~ Yes.

~6.~ I'm sitting down at table. A row of
eyes.

~7.~ I think I have been out collecting
eyes.

~9.~ I seem to have built a successful
business.

~AB.~  Yes.

~C.~ I'm standing in airfield. Negro
man. I get one arm behind his back,
cut out his eyes.

~D.~ I made a good living for myself.

~Incident erasing?~

Yes, it is.

~AB.~ Yes.

16:10                                               3.5

~C.~ I see this man, take his eyes out.

(Pc mumbling.)

And that was it.

~D.~ Nothing very much, really. I
worked for a geezer killing people
and got caught myself.

16:16                                               3.25

Break.

~That's it.~

TIME                                                TA

~This is the Session.~

16:38                                               3.2

Process R3R

~Has the incident become more solid?~

No.

~Earlier similar?~

Yes.

~2.~ 48.73 trillion years ago.

~3.~ Yes.

16:45                                               3.75

~4.~ 2 min.

~5.~ Yes.

~6.~ (Comm lag)

There's something on my right,
everything else is gloomy.

~7.~ The solution to something you
don't like is not to look at it.

                                                    4.0 }
                                                        }BD
                                                    3.6 }

I made a decision not to look at it.
And as soon as I do so the darn
thing is inside of me.

(Pc mumbles something)

Then as soon as I try looking again it
stops. Then I make the decision
not to look. As soon as I do that I
seem to be free.

~9.~ I went into not looking at
something unpleasant.

16:59                                               3.8

~AB.~ Yes, I'm there.

17:00                                               3.4

~C.~ Somehow I have to be careful. I
have the knowledge. If I'm not
clever enough I would lose. If I don't
look it's not there.

~D.~ Nothing at                                     3.6 }
                                                        } BD
all, really.                                        3.0 }

~Incident solid?~

Yes, it has I think.

~Earlier similar?~

If there is I can't find it. I don't feel
anything earlier than the last one.

(Date 48.73 trillion ago)

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 783

TIME                                                TA

~AB.~ Yes, I am.

~C.~ Pc jerked.

Yes, I'm at the beginning.
Something peculiar. Somehow
I've got myself in distance of this
thing. It is based on its own
consideration. I consider something
can be done.

17:21                                               3.6

Anything you can't see isn't there.

~D.~ I was fed a lie.

~Incident erasing?~

Some.

~Going solid?~

No.

~Earlier similar?~

I don't fine one.

~AB.~ Yes.                                          3.2

~C.~ I'm sitting on grayish mass.

(Pc jerked)

So I seem to be aware of top but not
of anything else.
When I decide to look I don't see it.

17:38                                               3.6

~D.~ For some strange                               2.8

TIME                                                TA

reason if you don't look you do see.
If you do look you don't see.

~Incident erasing?~

Yes.

~AB.~ Yes, I'm there.

17:43                                               3.1

~C.~ I'm here and . . . there. But I
can't remedy because something
which you can't see you can't
remedy. It struck me I could be here
forever.

17:50                                               2.75

If you don't look you can't see.

~Incident more solid?~

No.

I feel better about it.                             [!!!]

~Earlier similar?~

I don't think so. I think the basic on
that is erased.

(Pc GIs in.)

                        F/N INDICATED

~That's it.~

17:58                                               3.00

                784 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date:
Medical              :              Time:
Pc or Pre-OT name    :WP
Last grade attained  :VA
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

We're getting there, I think. It's working very well.
Things are going right.






------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 3.0   Pc indicators: GIs

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 785


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:              Date
Process run :              TA     Time 3 hr. 2 min
                           Auditor


Goals and gains:
Pc feels better about it.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Good, had trouble with basic.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.0 - 4.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc smiling - yes, happier.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Happy
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Clearer
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No                             No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No                                  No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes, in finding basic.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
3.00                                    F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
Next largest read be run. Folder to C/S.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:

------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 787


                Case 18
                [PICTURE#60] page 793


                788 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: PM                                Date  18/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: MM                         No. of hours  1 hr. 50 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Health Form          14:20  4.0        16         Goals:
Start of session     14:23  3.7
Process R3R
Item I - Itching
Cleared Commands     14:30  3.5
Item I               14:43  F/N
Continue H.F.
Item 2 - Tired
That's it.
Break                15:17  2.7
Men started banging
Must find new auditing
room.
Re-start of session  15:46  3.6        16         Goals:
                                                  Pc said
                                                  after
                                                  session:
                                                  "I am
                                                  very
                                                  glad that
                                                  is gone!
                                                  You were
                                                  so calm."
Process R3R
Item - Tired
Chain erased         16:39  2.4
    F/N
That's it.





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:
Finding a big language problem very difficult to
audit.



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 789

TIME                                                TA

~Start of Session.~

Process R3R

Item--itching feeling.

I have always to scratch.
Like insects walking over body.

Cleared commands

14:30                                               3.5

~1.~ OK.

~2.~ Is Feb. 19, '69.

~3.~ Now.

14:32                                               3.25

~4.~ 1 min.

~5.~ OK

14:33                                               3.2

~6.~ My husband; I received first
symptoms during making love.

~7.~ OK.

~8.~ Nothing. Two or three days later
I had itching.

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ OK

~D.~ A few days later I saw little red
bumps on arms. Doctor gave some-
thing. Didn't work. Got harder.

14:40                                               3.1

~Solid?~

I don't think so.

~Erasing?~

No.

~Earlier?~

No. It's erased.           GIs

14:43                 F/N INDICATED

Continue Health Form.

Item 2--tired. Don't like to do any-
thing--like to go to bed and sleep.

~1.~ 15:08                                          2.5

~2.~ Yesterday

~3.~ Um.

~4.~ 7 hr.

~5.~ OK

~6.~ Me in Hold 2.

~7.~ Um.

~9.~ I was so tired. I learned all the
evening; at one o'clock I went to
sleep.

TIME                                                TA

~AB.~ I'm there.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ I'm in Hold 2. Learned all
evening--became, very tired.

~Solid?~

No.

~Erasing?~

I don't know. I don't feel it.

~That's it for break.~

Men started banging. Pc can't audit.

15:17                                               2.6

~Start of Session.~

15:46                                               3.6

New auditing room.

Item: tired.

Don't like to do anything. I like to go
to bed and sleep.
I think it's going more solid.

~Earlier?~

Yes.

~2.~ 5th or 6th May.

~3.~ Um.

~4.~ 8 hrs.

~5.~ Um.

~6.~ Hold 2. My feet painful; tired in
legs.

~7.~ Ok.

~9.~ I stayed in Hold 2, and I became
tired. I learned my course. Didn't go
well 'cause I was tired. I couldn't go
very good 'cause, of my feet. At 24:00
I went to sleep.

15:56                                               3.4

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ But in morning when I had to
wake up I was still tired.

~D.~ I felt very sad--I didn't like to
learn any more.

~Solid?~

Yes.

~Earlier?~

16:00                                               2.75

Yes.

~1.~

~2.~ The first part of 1966.

                790 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~3.~ Um.

~4.~ 1 sec.

~5.~ Um.

~6.~ I was in kitchen making food.

~7.~ I was cooking, the pan fell from
fire on leg. Burnt.

~9.~ A few days later I had infection
on it; I called the doctor, 'cause
it was big, I was tired of it.

16:08                                               3.3

~AB.~ Um.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ I burnt me. The day after incident
I must go to work. Doctor told me
I must not wear stockings. I did.
I received infection. I was tired.

~Solid?~

No.

~Erasing?~

I think so.

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ Um.

~D.~ Me cooking. My pan fell on my leg.
Day after I had to work. Wore
stockings, got infection. Felt sad, tired,
very unhappy.

~Erasing?~

I don't know. I don't feel it.

~Solid?~

I don't think so.

~AB.~ Um.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ Hot pan fell on my leg, burnt me.
Doctor came. I was disappointed
with it. It wouldn't go away. When
the injury better, a few days, it was
finished.

16:20                                               2.6

TIME                                                TA

~Solid?~

No.

~Erasing?~

No.

~Earlier?~

~1.~ Yes.

~2.~ 19 June, 1965.

~3.~ Um.

~4.~ 10 min.

~5.~ Um.

~6.~ I am in a room, dark kitchen with
red light.

~7.~

16:25                                               3.1

~9.~ I was there for an abortion. It was
not painful. But a few mins later I
had pain.

16:28                                               2.9

~AB.~ Um.

~C.~ She did something to let come the
baby. Day after I went to clinic.
I had to rest a week.

16:32                                              2.5

~Solid?~

No.

~Erasing?~

Yes.

~AB.~ Um.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ Kitchen--women did something
to let come the baby. It was painful.
At last baby come. I was very tired.

16:39                                               2.4

~Erasing?~

The chain has erased!

                        F/N INDICATED

~That's it.~


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 791



                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date:  18/5/69
Medical              :              Time:  16:49
Pc or Pre-OT name    :PM
Last grade attained  :None
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

F/N     IND.             Pc smiling






------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 3.0   Pc indicators: V. good

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                792 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:PM       Date 18/5/69
Process run :R3R      TA 3.05 Time 1 hr. 50 min.
                      Auditor MM


Goals and gains:
Erased chain on tired. Basic was an abortion.
Pc was mother.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
2
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.0 - 3.5
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc happier, GIs in.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Pc very happy
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Yes            X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
                                   Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
Yes, language problem but we made it.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.4                                        F/N
                                           Pc said she could feel
                                           floating needle.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Folder to C/S.
------------------------------------------------------------------------



		    795


                Case 19
                [PICTURE#61] page 804


                796 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BB                                Date  23/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: GS                         No. of hours  1 hr. 58 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
START OF SESSION
(R3R)               10:02  3.75      8        Goals:
                                              Birth
                                              engram
                                              and one
                                              chain
                                              erased.
1. Locate an inc that could
have caused...
2. When was it?
3. Move to...                                 4 F/N
4. What is the duration?
5. Move to the beginning...                   Chain
                                              flat.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the inc.
to a point...
8. OK, continue.
9. What happened.
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident                           Meter
                                              trim
                                              check
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.                                    TA 2 = 2
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what
    happened

END OF SESSION      12:00  2.7       8





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:
(Pc had to wait 6 minutes before exam as
the Examiner was busy with other!)



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 797

TIME                                                TA

~Start of Session~

10.02                                               3.75

                                                    Sens 8

Item--Pain in head                                  3.25

~1.~ I got one                                      3.2

~2.~ 1923                                           3.25

~3.~ OK.

~4.~ 20 min.

~5.~ Yes.

~6.~ I see a bedroom.

~7.~ OK                                             3.3

            Slow R                                  3.4

                                                    3.5

                                                    3.6

                                                    3.7

                                                    3.75

                                                    3.8

                                                    3.9 }
                                                   F    }
                                                    3.8 }

                                                    3.9

(Pc deep                                            4.0
thinking)                                           4.1

                                                4.2 } 
                                                    }LFBD }
                                                3.8 }     }
                                                          } 
                                                     3.75 }

                                                    3.9

                                                    4.1

                                                    4.2 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    3.9 }

                                                    4.0

10.15                                               4.1

                                                    4.2

                                                    4.25

                                                    4.3

                                                  F 4.2 }
                                                        } LFBD
I went                                                  }
through                                             3.8 }
birth again.                                            }
                                                        }
                                                    3.5 }

                                                    3.7

                                                    3.75

                                                    3.8

                                                  F 3.7

                                                    3.8

TIME                                                TA

                                                    3.9 }
                                                   F    }
                                                    3.7 }

                                                    3.8

                                                    3.9

                                                    4.0

                                                    4.2 }
                                                        } LFBD
10.20                                               3.8 }

                                                    4.0

                                                    4.1

                                                    4.2

                                                    4.25 }
                                                         } LFBD
                                                     4.1 }

(Puts his head                                      4.0
on table.)                                          3.8

Misemotion                                          4.0

10.24                                               4.1 
                                                       LFBD
                                                    3.3

~9.~ I took another walk in my birth
area.

(Pc muttering now)                                  3.1 }
                                                        }
That's what I did.                                  3.0 }

~AB.~ OK                                            3.1

~C.~                                                3.2

10.28                                               3.25

                                                    3.3

                                                    3.4

                                                    3.5 }
                                                LFBD    }
                                                    3.2 }

                                                    3.25

                                                    3.3

                                                    3.4

                                                  F 3.3 }
                                                        } 
It's pretty good.                                   3.1 }

~D.~ I just took a look through my
birth engram again. (laughs)

~Erasing or more solid?~                            2.9

It's erasing                                        2.75

                                                    2.7

~AB.~ OK (laugh)

~C.~                                                2.75

                                                    2.8

                                                    2.9

                                                    3.0 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    2.8 }

                798 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

                                                    2.7 }
                                                        }
                                                    2.6 }

                                                    2.7

                                                    2.75

10.37                                               2.8

                                                    2.9

10.38                                               2.9

                                                    3.0 }
                                                        }LFBD
                                                   2.75 }

                                                    2.8

                                                    2.8

                                                    2.9

10.41                                               3.0

~D.~ I went through the inc.
again-- feeling of a gag, choking!

Cogn, Thank you F/N                                 2.7

GI.

That must be all I have left on this.

(smiling) (laugh)

(Needle still floating.)

10.42                                               2.5

Item--tenseness

10.46                                               2.6

OK.                                                 2.7

                                                    2.75

Yes!

~2.~ 1910

~3.~ Oh! Ok

~4.~ 10 min.

~5.~ Ok

~6.~ Just a shape.                                  2.7

~7.~                                                2.8

                                                    3.0

                                                    3.1

                                                    3.2

                                                    3.25

                                                    3.3

(Pc smiling,                                        LF
then laughing)                                      3.2 }
                                                        }LFBD
                                                    2.9 } 
I had a horse.

10.53                                               2.8

(Put his head on table.)

~9.~ Hard to tell . . .                             3.0
with horses.

TIME                                                TA

It was quite heavy.
I see horses.
I seem to be in some sort of . . .
I was riding the horse. Very clear
view of back end of horse.
That's it.

                                                    2.7

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~ (Pc smiling)                                   2.75

the . . . ground seems to be moving
pretty fast.                                        2.7

10.58                                               2.75

Ideas coming up.

                                                    2.8

                                                    2.9

                                                    3.0 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    2.8 }

A horse in front of me                              2.9
Riding a horse. Looks like I'm riding
it.                                                 2.75
Can hear hoofs stamping on the
ground.                                             2.8

                                                    2.9

                                                    3.0

                                                    3.1

11.00                                               3.1

                                                    3.2

~D.~ But I get the idea                             2.8
I was on a race track. I seem to be
                                                    2.75
listening for something. Think I was
a highway robber.                                   2.7

~Inc erasing or going more solid?~

More solid.

~1. Earlier similar feeling?~

Yes.                                                2.75

~2.~ 1.500 . . .                                    2.8

~3.~ Yes.                                           2.9

~4.~ 1 hr 20 min                                    3.0

~5.~ Good

~6.~ Sort of a hat.                                 3.1

~7.~ OK.                                            3.2

11.06                                               3.25

(Cough)                                             3.3

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 799

TIME                                                TA

Oh-oh, I got it. (Pc smiling)
It seems to be . . .
something circular.

                                                    3.4 }
                                                        } LFBD
(laugh)                                            3.25 }

Yeah! Moving across terrain
high up                                             3.3
Oh god!                                             3.4
Some funny . . .                                    3.25 }
                                                         } LFBD
sensations.                                          3.1 }

11.10                                               3.2 }
                                                        } LF
                                                    3.1 }
                                                        }
I just--(Iaugh)                                     3.0 }
It's kind of funny.                                  2.9

                                                    3.0

                                                    3.1

Yes!                                                3.0

I got myself into a situation. (laugh)

~9.~

(Pc laughing) I'm not so sure on
that. It feels like I could have got
sort of drunk. I got into a situation.
I got a fright, you know. (Pc
laughing)

Yeah. I've                                          F/N
just been riding when I got a fright.
                    F/N INDICATED

[!!!] OK.  GIs (laugh)

Cog                                                 2.7

~1. Earlier inc: similar feeling?~

Yes.                                                2.7

11.17

~2.~ 110.842

~3.~ Yes.                                           2.75

~4.~ 15 min.

~5.~ Yes.

~6.~ I'm a piece of machinery.

~7.~                                                2.8

There are a lot of                                  2.9
machines around here . . .                          3.0
Yeah, seems to be a base.
It's funny.                                         3.2

                                                    3.25

                                                    3.3

                                                    3.25

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ I seem to be in a base, yeah!

~AB.~ OK.                                           3.2

~C.~

11.24 . . . Aah!                                    3.3

                                                    3.4 F

                                                    3.5

                                          Slow Rise 3.6

                                                    3.7

(Yawn)                                              3.8 }
                                                        } LFBD
I don't get this one.                               3.6 }
(Smile) Yes! Oh yes.

(Pc laughing)                                       3.5

Oh yes.

~D.~ I seem to be looking for another
where I was sort of . . . seem to be
flying in huge craft.                               3.3
Like graduating from a yacht, to
the ~Queen Mary~.

Pure and simple.

Cogn                                                F/N

(laughing) GI. That's fine. That's
great.

Break--11.32                                        2.8

(Pc wanted a cigarette)

11.38 ~Start of session.~                           3.6

[!!!]

~1.~ Locate an earlier inc. similar                 3.5
feeling.                                            3.4

~2.~ 186 million.

~3.~ OK                                             3.3

~4.~ 1 hour 30 min.

~5.~ Yes.                                           3.3

~6.~ Space, fast.

~7.~                                                3.4

I seem to be moving                                 3.5
across the space.                                   3.6
Something going down falling . . .
sensation.

(Pc laugh) Inside                                   3.5
I know what                                         3.4
that was.

~9.~ I seem to be                                   3.0
moving across this vast space at a
very high altitude. 100,000th of a

                800 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

planet closer than that. Anyhow,
the thing, something went. It was
falling . . . it went up. It seems
to be                                               3.
a planet in the vicinity . . .
of a couple of                                      3.
thous. miles.

~AB.~ OK                                            3.3

~C.~ 11.48                                          3.4

                                                    3.6

                                                    3.7

                                                    3.75

                                                    3.8

                                                  F 3.8

11.52                                               3.7

I seem to have crossed a vast space.

                                                    3.5

~D.~ A sort of piece of a rocket.                   3.25

(Coughs)

That's it.                                          3.1

~Is the inc. erasing or going more
solid?~

It's erasing.                                       3.0

~AB.~ OK.                                           3.1

TIME                                                TA

~C.~ I see a burnt black body                       3.25

                                                    3.3 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    3.1 }

                                                    3.2

                                                    3.25

                                                  F 3.2

~D.~ I seem to get                                  3.25
what I want out                                     3.3
of it.

                                                    3.1 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    2.9 }

Ahh/ (laugh)
Looks like a --
A ghost, a crime.

                                                    F/N

                                                    2.9

(Pc laughing)

GI -- cogn

I blew up a planet, man! (laughs)

12.00              F/N INDICATED.

~End of session.~


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 801

TIME                     TA    TIME                     TA

Assessment Sheet

1. Feeling like the       1. Reassess 3. Reassess 2. Reassess
inside of my head
is . . . roar.

2. Roar feeling.             LFBD        x

3. A no-life sort of         SF          F           x
feeling.

4. Flat feeling.             x           x           x

5. Pressure                  x           x           x
feeling.

6. It feels like             SF          Tick        F
having a head
no body.

7. Pressure in               LF          x           x
back of eyes
feeling.

8. Heat feeling              SF          x           F
in the face.

9. Tiredness                 x           x           LF --

10. Feeling                  xSF         x           SF
of heat.

11. Tenseness.               SF          SF          ext

12. Fear of                              F
making mistakes.

addition                                 LF

13. Dizziness on
top of head.

14. A tightening around
the top of the head.


                802 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                 Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                Date:
             or                      Time:
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BB
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

"OK" (smiling) (laughs) "Sha--"





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.5              Pc indicators: GIs (smiling)
                                             Beaming.

State of needle: Loose

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner



                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 803



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BB         Date 23/5/69
Process run :R3R        TA     Time 1hr. 58 min.
                        Auditor


Goals and gains:
Birth engram erased and chain to erasure.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well, a bit tired.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
100 percent.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes, 4.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Rising, F - later loose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes, 4.3                                        Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.0 - 3.5
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
From interested to bright appearance.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Yes.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No           Yes                        -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No                             -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                 Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.7                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Continue R3R
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 805


                Case 20
                [PICTURE#62] page 812
                [PICTURE#63] page 813


                806 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: GS                                Date  15/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: TK                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours  1 + 28




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-       Results &
                        Reads      tivity       Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session 13:15  2.6    6             Goals:
                                                TA 3.0
R-factor

List from C/S before dope -
Sept.67

1. Locate incident
2. When was it?
3. Move to____
4. What is the duration of
the incident?
5. Move to the beginning of
that incident.
6. Close your eyes. What do
you see?
7. Move through the incident
to a point_____ later.
8. Okay, continue.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what happened.

Is the incident erasing or
going more solid?

Locate an earlier incident with a similar somatic.
    F/N             13:57  2.0    6            F/N indicated to pc.
    F/N             14:14  2.15   6            F/N indicated to pc.
    F/N             14:17  2.2    6            F/N indicated to pc.
    F/N             14:06  2.15   6            F/N indicated to pc.
    F/N             14:43  2.25   6            F/N indicated to pc.
That's it.                                     GI's pc. very bright.

Meter TA check 1.95





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 807

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

13:15                                               2.6

R-factor on listing for all somatics,
sensations, misemotions you had
before you first took any dope.

'67? September.

Fear of punishment            LFBD

13:17                                               2.3

Liver infection

stomach trouble

Liver

Hard feeling of everything pulling
together in the area of liver -- F

13:19                                               2.2

Stomach

A knot in my stomach.

Ear operation.

Burning feeling in ear -- x

That's it. (Smile)

13:21                                               2.2

Fear of punish -- sF

Hard-pulling together feeling.

Knot in stomach -- sF

Burning in ear -- LF

13:24                                               2.15

~1.~ Locate an incident that could
have caused burning in ear.

OK.

~2.~ 1961. Can't locate exactly.

~3.~ All right.

~4.~ 14 days.

~5.~ OK.

~6.~ Talking with the doctor.

13:27                                               2.1

(Needle very calm, not stuck, bob-
bing with jerky motions.)

~7.~

Clinic -- operation. To bed at home
when I woke, girlfriend there. Head
in plaster. Father hollering at me.
Sent me to school. Then in bedroom
bad pains in my ear. Could not sleep.
Eyes also bothered me.

13:31                                               2.15

TIME                                                TA

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~

~D.~ Difficult to find pictures.
More a recall. Misemotion is gone.
That's it.

~Erasing--solid.~

I think it is erasing.

13:34                                               2.25

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ Needle rising very slightly. Pc
looks.

~D.~ Black field. I can't find pictures.
Looks like solid.

~Earlier?~

13:37                                               2.2

(Needle very loose)                                 [!!!]

(No read on earlier)

13:38                                               2.25

I would like to make a statement. I
have a PTP of ~itching~. I am                       [!!!]
only interested in this present time
problem. My interest is hung on this
PT somatic.       LFBD

13:42                                               2.1

Sensation of ~itching~. Yes.
Different parts of body changing
from cold to hot sensation, to all
together mixed up.

13:45                                               2.2

Itching sensation.

~1.~ Ok.

~2.~ Begin February, 1969.

~3.~ OK.

~4.~ Two hours.

~5.~ Ok.

~6.~ I'm in bed with a girl. I'm annoyed
by a dog.

13:48                                               2.15

~7.~

13:58                                               2.2

Laughing         F/N INDICATED

I have to laugh. I like you as an
auditor. I look at you and have to
laugh.

(Acknowledgement)

                808 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~Locate fear of punishment.~

~1.~ Ok

14:00                                               2.15

~2.~ 1960

~3.~ OK.

14:02                                               2.2

~4.~ Two minutes.

~5.~ All right.

~6.~ I am walking, passing corner
street there was a truck.

~7.~ 14:03                                          2.25

~8.~ OK.

~9.~ Well, I turned the corner at
parent's home. The lights are all on.
I had run away and was coming
back.

14:05                                               2.25

(Pc laughs)

Charge gone            F/N

14:06                                               2.15

~Locate an earlier.~

~1.~ It is difficult.

(Moving in chair)

I have one.

~2.~ That's a problem.

14:08                                               2.1

14:08                                               2.15

~2.~ 1952 approximately.

~3.~ Five minutes.

~4.~

~5.~ Ok.

~6.~ I am in father's office. He is
angry at me.

~7.~ OK.

14:10                                               2.2

~8.~ (Pc body jerking a little)

~9.~ I was in his office and he was
angry. I had stolen one Belgian
franc out of adding machine. He
tells me thieves all the same. I was
crying. I said it was not true. I had
to say it was. I was afraid. I was
crying.

~AB.~ I am there.

TIME                                                TA

14:12                                          2.15 F/N

~C.~ Pc bright.

~D.~ I've lost the incident somehow.

(Pc laughing)

(Pc shiny)

14:14                                               2.15

            INDICATED F/N

(Pc very happy)

~1.~ Locate earlier with similar fear.~

(Pc now looking and very serious.)

I cannot find anything.

14:17                                               2.2

~Check: Is there an earlier?~

14:18                 F/N                           2.2

~Check: Hard-pulling (Liver) is OK.~

Protest.

Those are over and done already.
Two engrams while on drugs. I
went unconscious, two times on
drugs. I just remembered the ear-
liest of the two.

14:21                                               2.2

~1.~ The first one unconsciousness.

~2.~ 1968.

~3.~ All right.

~4.~ 1/4 hours.

~5.~ OK.

~6.~ Me in little cafe-bar completely
stoned.

~7.~ OK.

14:24                                               2.25

~9.~ I had drunk too much. I became
drunk and smoked. Went out to get
air. I went unconscious later. Awoke
on street, head bleeding. Stood up,
took taxi.

14:26                                               2.25

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ 14:27                                          2.2

~D.~ Same story. I went outside
(laughing) on ground, no feeling.

~E/S?~

Erasing.

~AB.~

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 809

TIME                                                TA

(Lauging) I'm there.

~C.~

~D.~ I lost it . . .

14:29                                               2.25

It is not funny to lose the picture
you're looking for. (Laugh)

~Earlier?~

~1.~ Yes.

~2.~ One month earlier, 1968.

~3.~

~4.~ About ten minutes.

~5.~

~6.~ In a bar. I'm in a bar smoking a
stick.

~7.~ OK.

14:32                                               2.25

Hand jerking, head jerking a little.

14:33                                               2.2

~9.~ Strong sticks. Drunk and didn't
feel well at first but try second.
Went outside for air against wall of
house.

14:34                                               2.4

Black. Woke up.

Went out--woke up

Went out--woke up

TIME                                                TA

Three times.

                                                2.2 F/N

I feel uncomfortable.

~AB.~ I am there.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ I practically lost picture again.
No sensation left.

~E/S?~

Erasing.

14:37                                               2.4

~AB.~ I am there.

~C.~ Needle -- F

~D.~ Cafe--outside unconscious. Then
I lost pictures.

Saw others. Football field, air-
planes. Could not get it back.

                                                    BD }
                                                       }
14:39                                              2.2 }

~Earlier?~

(Pc laughing, bright)

I cannot get it. I saw just a tenth of
a second and then it blew.

14:43                                           2.2 F/N

                                               INDICATED

(Laughing)                                         GIs


                810 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date:  15/5/69
Medical              :              Time:  15:00
Pc or Pre-OT name    :
Last grade attained  :IV
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I feel allright. I still have one problem -- recalling.
I can't remember dates.
Very difficult to recall dates of incidents.


                        F/N



------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 2.2  Pc indicators: GIs in --
                                            smiling.

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 811



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:GS            Date 15/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA 3.0 Time 1 + 28
                           Auditor TK


Goals and gains:
List somatics prior dope - run.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes, five
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Clean
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No                                               v
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.15 - 2.25
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Yes/good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Very bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, face color - up.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
           Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Only while locating.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                            Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very happy
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.25                                    F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
C/S.
Run sessions mentioned page 3, column 1
as incidents.
------------------------------------------------------------------------



                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 815


                Case 21
                [PICTURE#64] page 820


                816 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: SG                                Date  24/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: MD                         No. of hours  1 hr. 45 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-          Results &
                        Reads      tivity          Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
START OF SESSION                                   Goals:
                      9:45  3.9     6
Ran a feeling with regard                          "Feeling of
to drugs.                                          going dead"
R3R                   9:55  2.8     6              From a drug
                                                   experience.
1.
2.
3.                                                 Pc ran
                                                   smoothly.
4.                                                 Had many
                                                   BDs, just
                                                   talking about
                                                   drugs - Got
                                                   an F/N
                                                   had
                                                   erasures
                                                   on a very
                                                   unpleasant
                                                   experience.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
    A.
    B.
    C.
    D.

MORE SOLID?

ERASING?                                             GIs and very
                                                     happy.
EARLIER?
                                                     Trim check
                                                     = 2.00
END OF SESSION        10:08  2.7    8
                             F/N





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 817

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

9.45                                                3.9

~Food and rest.~

Yes.

~R-factor: Is there any feeling that
you do like or do not about drugs?~

                                               LFBD 3.5 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.3 }

(Pc) Gave me a feeling of everything
good, laughable. Really liked the
group friendship. Never took them
alone. I don't like to be alone..
During youth                                        BD
had an excessive need for admira-
tion. I forgot--when I took opium
once I got very sick and never took
it again.                                       3.0 BD
I'd like to run the opium experience
and two times I went                            2.9 LFBD
unconscious with hashish.

Opium experience,
"feeling of going . . .

9:55                                                2.8

~1.~ OK.

TIME                                                TA

~2.~ Dec. '68

~3.~

~4.~ 15 hours.

9:57                                                2.8

~5.~

~6.~ Sitting with a group in a room
smoking pot and hashish.

~7.~

10:00                                               3.0

~9.~ When sitting in room one
guy had a piece of opium. I bought
it, swallowed, later got sick--very
sick--for all the time. It's turning on
now.

~A. B. C.~

10:05                                               2.80

~D.~ I lost the incident.
It's gone--couldn't find it.

                                                    BD

Aud indicates F/N        GIs

10:08                                               2.65

~That's it.~

10:08½                                              F/N

~E.O.S.~                                            2.7


                818 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :             Date:  24/5/69
Medical              :             Time:
Pc or Pre-OT name    :GS
Last grade attained  :
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                        Smiling





------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 2.7   Pc indicators: GIs

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 819



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:GS            Date 24/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA 1.45 Time 20 min.
                           Auditor MD


Goals and gains:
Ran a bad drug experience
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.9 - 2.65
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Happy, high - improved.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No          X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                 v
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.7                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Folder to C/S, perhaps pc should be back to
Scientology as he is very high-toned,
healthy, happy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 821


                Case 22
                [PICTURE#65] page 822
                [PICTURE#66] page 823
                [PICTURE#67] page 824
                [PICTURE#68] page 825
                [PICTURE#69] page 826
                [PICTURE#70] page 827
                [PICTURE#71] page 828
                [PICTURE#72] page 829
                [PICTURE#73] page 830
                [PICTURE#74] page 831
                [PICTURE#75] page 832
                [PICTURE#76] page 833
                [PICTURE#77] page 834


                822 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: G. S.                            Date  17 - 5 - 69
                         No. of intensive hours
Auditor: T. K.                     No. of hours  1 + 44
                                    Total hours



                                       TA = 2.7
Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-        Results &
                        Reads      tivity        Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session  19:05  2.5   6              Goals:
R-factor             19:06  2.25  6

Listing / Assess     19:07  2.2   6
                  -------------------
                     19:24  1.75  6

R3R                  19:29  1.75  6

1. Locate an incident that could have caused ____.
2. What was the date of that incident ?
3. Move to ____.
4. What is the duration of the incident ?
5. Move to the beginning of the incident.
6. Close your eyes. What do you see ?
7. Move through the incident to a point ____ later.
8. Only - Okay, continue.
9. What happened ?
    A. Move to the beginning of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are there.
    C. Scan through to the end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what happened.

    E/S. Is the incident erasing or going more solid ?
            Locate an earlier incident which caused a similar.

    That's it        20:49  2.0   6             How do you
                                                feel ?
                                                Good.

Meter Check                 TA = 1.9





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 835




                Case 23
                [PICTURE#78] page 841


                836 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BD                                Date  1/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours  20 min.
Auditor: MM                         No. of hours  28 min.
                                     Total hours  48 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session.                              Goals:
Assessment                   16:14  3.0      6
Process R3R

1. Locate an incident
2. When was it?
3. Move to
4. Duration
5. Move to the beginning of
that incident.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the incident
to a point ___ later.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are there.
    C. Scan through to the end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what happened.

Item - thumb squashed.
Incident erased - F/N
                             16:26  2.1
Headache to the right of
both eyes.                   16:32  2.1
Cog: F/N
Headache: Pressure in
forehead.
Cog: F/N                     16:35  2.1
Item - weak right eye
stinging                     16:43  2.0
Basic found                  16:45  F/N
Pc says chain erased.
Assessed again               16:48  2.1
Cog: F/N                     16:52  2.0
That's it.





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 837

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

16:14                                               3.0

Process R3R.

Assessment.

End Assessment.

16:20                                               2.4

Item: thumb squashed.

16:22                                               2.4

                                                    2.25

~2.~ 8 Jan 1969

~3.~ Um

~4.~ 5 min.

~5.~ Um

Pc jumped command.

~6.~ My room in nursery. It was my
birthday. Denna telling me what she
got for birthday. I got angry,
squashed my thumb. I started
crying. (Cog) I slammed finger in
door to make her wrong.

~9.~ I had a strange sensation of
squashed finger.

16:26       F/N INDICATED                           2.1

Assessed list again.

Cog: during assessment on head-
aches to right of both eyes. When
you get keyed-in you'll pull in mass
and you'll have headaches.

16:32                                               F/N

Cog: during assessment, headache
--pressure in forehead. Just mass
indication.

TIME                                                TA

16:35                                               F/N

Item: weak right eye, stinging.

16:42                                               2.0

~1.~

~2.~ 14 Feb 1969

~3.~ Hm.

~4.~ 10 min.

~5.~ Hm.

~6.~ Studying TR-0 in Hold 2. Just
confronting. Eyes started watering
--grief. One eye cleared up, (pc
jumped command.)

~9.~ Pulled in somatic from earlier
incident. Wouldn't you like basic?
When I got stone in my eye!
9 Sept 1965,
Thurs evening,
5 o'clock!

16:47                                               F/N

Pc says chain is erased.

Pc laughing. Cheekbones hurt!!

Assessed list again.

Cog: when body first forming. Fin-
gers are straight. One was cracked.
Had to justify; pulled in broken
fingers.

16:42                                               2.0

F/N, ~That's it.~

List complete.


                838 BOOK THREE

                Medical Assessment


    Weak right eye -- stinging -- fall

    Headaches to right of both eyes -- bumping
    head against wall -- small fall

    Headache -- pressure in forehead -- small F

    Thumb -- squashed -- long fall

    Toenail -- small fall -- no feeling

    Little fingers -- fall -- pins in the joint of the finger.


                2nd Assessment

    Weak right eye -- stinging -- LF

    Headaches to right of both eyes -- banging
    head against wall -- fall

    Headache -- pressure in forehead -- needle F/N

    Toenail -- fall

    Little fingers -- pins pricking in knuckles -- small fall


                3rd Assessment

    Toenail -- no feeling

    Little fingers -- F/N


                FINISHED!!!


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 839



                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date:  1/5/69
             or                        Time:
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BD
Last grade attained :VA Release
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

None. GIs, laugh.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.5              Pc indicators:

State of needle: Loose and clean.

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                840 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BD            Date 1/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA 1.0 Time 28 min.
                           Auditor MM


Goals and gains:
Pc finished medical list. 3 cogs.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Very, very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Floating
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.0 - 3.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc (laughing) happy, walked in session a bit gloomy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Giggling, bright, happy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Pc's face clear.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Yes          X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes, 3.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes!!
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very much so.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.0                                        Floating
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Folder to C/S.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 843




                Case 24
                [PICTURE#79] page 849
                [PICTURE#80] page 850

                844 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: TK                                Date  17/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours  1 hr. 3 min.
Auditor: FJ                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours


                                        TOTAL TA = 6.9

Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm    Sensi-     Results &
                        Reads       tivity     Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of session 10:29  3.9    8               Goals: Pc
                 10:30  3.75   8               looks
                                               healthy,
                                               a bit
                                               introverted
                                               and
                                               dispersed.
Assess           11:10  3.3   8                Asked for any
                                               unwanted
                                               feeling before
                                               drink. Pc
                                               recounted
                                               briefly
                                               several
                                               times the
                                               incs which
                                               caused his
                                               unwanted
                                               feelings.
Make list of any unwanted
feelings before any drugs.

Assess.          11:32  3.2    8               Got lots of
                                               TA during
                                               this and
                                               loose
                                               needle but
                                               needle
                                               would then
                                               tighten
                                               quickly.

                                               Assessed
                                               list.
                                               No reads.
End of session    11:32  3.2   8               Needle
                                               perfectly
                                               still. Pc
                                               said
                                               "broken
                                               feeling" was
                                               the
                                               description
                                               of the back.
                                               Described it
                                               better than
                                               any other.

                                               Trim Check
                                               = 1.9






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 845

TIME                                                TA

~Start of session.~

Pc looks healthy

10:29                                               3.9 }
                                                        } BD
                                                   3.75 } 

Ask for list of unwanted feelings
before drinking.

                                                    3.75 }
                                                         } LFBD
                                                     3.5 }

I'm trying to figure out when I really
started to drink. I started drinking
as a game in 1951. (Needle tight.)
Just childhood romance before that.

10:35                                               3.6

In college in fall of 1950 I was
refused clearance to play
football.                                           3.75

(Pc depressed.)

                                                    3.8

(Pc comm lagging, thinking)

                                                    3.9

I wet bed till I was nine                           4.0

                                                    4.1 }
                                                        } LFBD
10:39                                               3.8 }

That was quite a mystery to my
folks.                                              4.
I didn't enjoy that -- LF                           3.9

~Any somatic or feeling with it?~

It was not a feeling just problem.                  3.9
I was always healthy.
I'm not being much help.

(Pc quiet)

Is that it?

Oh, I could                                         LFBD
say I was a
bit bored                                           3.4
with life. I didn't like kids' games.

                                                    3.3

There are --                                        3.5

(Needle loose)                                      3.6

What were the unwanted feelings
of the things you                                   3.7
gave me?

10:45                                               3.8

(Pc quiet) (comm lag)

                                                    3.6

TIME                                                TA

I get more into tone level here.

                                                    3.7 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    3.2 }

I was very independent.

I had no problems.                                  3.0

I can't stand having to take orders
from incompetents. Only problem
there was school. But I got straight
As.

(Needle loose)

~Unwanted feelings?~ Wow.

(Needle tightens)

I could manage it on my own.
I did well. (Laugh) I could control mom.

(Needle loose)

10:51                                               3.1

I wish I could have played football.

(Pc moving a lot.)

(Puts down cans. Picks up cans.)

                                                    3.25

First problem was cartilage

(Needle very tight.)

                                                    3.3

Pc describes feelings of cartilage                  3.4

(Needle sticky.)

Loose                                           3.2 LFBD

~Could you give me exact feeling?~

10:55                                               3.3

Bed wetting, to do with it's feeling
guilty. No body feeling.

~Kids?~ -- No feeling.

No problem.

10:59                                               3.2

That's when I got my first back
incident.

Dec 1949                                            3.3

(Pc briefly                                         3.4
recounts it.)                                       3.5

(Pc yawns)

I was unconscious.                           3.25 } LFBD

Recounting                                          3.1
now.                                                3.2

                                                    3.3

11:02                                               3.4

                846 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~Feeling?~

It smarted.                                         3.3 }
(Laughs)                                        LFBD    }
Body motion.                                        3.0 }

Let's see.

Pc recounting                                       3.1
trying to get feeling.                              3.2

11:05                                               3.3

                                                    3.4

~Would smashed                                  3.5 LFBD
sensation be right?~                                3.4

                                                    3.5

                                                    3.6

                                                    LFBD

                                                    3.3

                                                    3.4

                                                    3.5

11:09 That'sit.                                     3.3

11:10 Assess                                        LFBD

No reads.

No drugs.                                           3.0

Except when prescribed.                             3.2

~What about                                         3.1
those times, what unwanted feeling
before those?~ Gives                                3.2
broken back again.

10:14

I got drugs from woman who worked
at place. Used when I needed drugs.
Took codeine for cartilage.
Morphine                                            3.4
for pinched nerve in the left                       3.5
knee.                                               LFBD
Whenever I                                          3.3
hurt my back                                        LFBD

                                                    3.0

                                                    3.1

                                                    3.2

I've had                                            3.3
codeine for tense back. I                           3.2

TIME                                                TA

took codeine for 3 or 4 days
on back.
They did help.                                      3.3

11:19                                               3.4

              hurt arm.

Knees                                               3.4

Back

(Needle sticky)

Ribs -- no                                          LFBD

~That'sit?~                                         3.1

Yeah.                                               LFBD

                                                    2.9

(Pc laughs)

I had cog. I'm feeling guilty cause I'm
so healthy.

(Needle looser)

(Laugh GIs)                                         3.1

Pc looks up smiling.

Feeling of knees                                    3.2
same as before.                                     3.3

~Feeling of back?~                                  3.2

10:25                                               3.3

Describes                                           3.4

I should probably look up def. of
ache.                                               LFBD

                                                    3.3

I took drugs                                        3.2
for pneumonia. In Oct 1958 I had it.

                                                    LFBD

11:31                                               3.2

~Is that it?~                                       3.1

Yeah.                                               3.2

Assess                                              3.4

                                                    3.2

3.2 no reads.

~End of session.~

11:32 Pc calm. Needle sticky. Pc
less desperate than when we
started. Pc's GIs in after session is
over. Smiling, laughing.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 847



                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 17/5/67
             or                        Time: 11:40
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :TK
Last grade attained :
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Was a nice session. I don't seem to have any body
problems.






------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.8              Pc indicators: GIs in.

State of needle: Loose

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                848 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:TK                        Date 17/5/69
Process run :Asked pc for              TA 6.9 Time 1 hr.
                      any unwanted     Auditor FJ
                      feelings for R3R.
                      Got no reads.
                      So nothing run.
                      Pc's GIs in at
                      session end.



Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Well
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
No process run
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose, occasionally very sticky
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No                                            -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes, 4.1                                        Yes, 2.9
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.0 - 3.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Pc was unenthusiastic, dispersed, came uptone
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Laughing, smiling at session end.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Healthy
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No           No                        No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes, but no reads, ran nothing.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes!
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
3.2                                        sticky
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
From the data I have, pc back to Scn. lines.
Possibly wait awhile and do new health form.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 851




                Case 25
                [PICTURE#81] page 858


                852 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BJ                                Date  25/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: MS                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours 1 hour




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reassessment of medical                           Goals:
report and Health Form.
                     14:20  2.25      16
START OF SESSION

Chicken pox Start    14:26  2.1       16          F/N - BD
incident run out
with R3R             14:45  2.1       16          Very good
                                                  GIs - Loose
                                                  needle

1. Locate inc
2. When was it?
3. Move to date
4. Establish duration
5. Move to the beginning
of that incident
6. Close your eyes. What do
you see?
7. Move through the
incident to a point (duration)
later.
9. What happened?
Incident - measles   14:53  2.8       16          F/N - BD very
                                                  good
Start
End of incident      15:00  2.3       16          GIs
                                                  laughting
Incident - toothache
                     15:05  3.0       16          F/N BD very
                                                  good GIs
                     15:15  2.6       16
End of session       15:20  2.6       16          Pc very
                                                  happy






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:
Two symptoms - tiredness and dizziness were not run
as pc said they were run out in previous session as
they occurred at the same time as
the stomach ache of the last session.


                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 853

TIME                                                TA

Incident chicken pox.

14:26                                               2.1

~1.~

~2.~ 1965                                           2.05

~3.~ Yes

~4.~ 3 weeks' long

~5.~ Yes.

~6.~ A boy I was looking after, had
chicken pox. I had a bath and . . . had
chicken pox. In bed with ice cream,
reading a book.

~7.~ Friend, asked friend of teacher if
I could have and read books. The day
I went to school, Mother bought me
some books.

14:31                                               2.0

~9.~ Spotted pimples on my back. And
Mother sent me to bed and teacher
said it was better to rest . . .
Doctor gave me medicine.

14:35                                               2.1

14:36                                               2.05

~AB.~ Yes

~C.~ Little boy, mother and I were
looking after. I get in the bath and
Mom says I have chicken pox. Retia
comes to see me and asked if she
could get me books.

~D.~ Just what I told you.

14:42                                               1.9

~Erasing/Solid?~

NOT GETTING SOLID.

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~ Little boy. Just got home spotted
some spots on my back and she said
better for me to go to bed.

~D.~ Just what I told you.

(Very good GIs, laughing)

                                                F/N BD

14:45                                               2.1

(Nice, loose needle)

        F/N INDICATED

14:35 INCIDENT MEASLES                              2.8

TIME                                                TA

~2.~ When 3 years old, 8th February,
1962.

~3.~

~4.~ 3 or 4 days

14:58                                               3.0

~5.~ Yes

~6.~ At school, teacher called me,
what were the spots on my neck.

~7.~ Sent to bed, a bath every day and
I ate ice cream and lemonade.

~9.~ What I told you.

14:59                                               2.9

~AB.~ Yes.

~C.~ At school, teacher said mother
said they were measles. Sent me to
bed. I had a bath every day . . . ice
cream.

~OK.~

~D.~ What happened? What I told you
before.

~Erasing/Solid?~

Not getting solid.

                                                    GI

15:00                                               F/N

                                                2.3 BD

(Very good GIs, feels like she's
floating! Laughing.)

            F/N INDICATED

Incident--toothache

15:08                                               3.0

(Nice, loose needle)

~2.~ 17 April, 1969

~3.~ Yes

~4.~ 10 Minutes

~5.~ Yes

~6.~ Sitting in the car

~7.~ I get a horrible toothache. I took
an aspirin and it went away.

15:12                                               3.0

~9.~ That. It's run out. I feel good
about it.

(Very good GIs)                                     F/N

                 F/N INDICATED

                854 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

15:15                                               2.6

Just wanted to tell you                             fall

15:15                                           2.6 F/N

Incident--dizziness.

Feels it was handled with the stom-
ach ache incident.

~End of Session~

TIME                                                TA

15:20                                               2.7

Feel its complete.

Incident tiredness.

Felt it had been handled in
the session with stomach ache;
was part same somatic.
It was run out and pc feels it was
not needed to be run out.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 855

                Re Assessment -- 25/4/69

    Dianetic Health Form, Pc Assessment Sheet
    and Medical Report.

TIME          TA             SYMPTOM
14.21         1/4 div BD     Chicken pox
14.22         1/8 div BD     Measles
14.23         Rise           Not run - see below
                             Tiredness (with stomach
                             ache)
14.23         Rise           Toothache
14.24         Rise           Dizziness. (same time as
                             stomach ache)

                             ~Pc did not want it run as it was
                             taken care of in previous
                             session~.


                856 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 25/4/69
             or                        Time: 15.23
After session exam  :
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BJ
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Laugh! No statement!
This time. Just Susie is a good auditor.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.5              Pc indicators:

State of needle: Clean and loose needle.

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 857



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BJ            Date 25/4/69
Process run :R3R           TA 1.45 Time 60 min.
                           Auditor MS


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Made pc very happy; she said she felt like she was
floating.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes, 3.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
1.9                                           Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
3.1                                             Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.0 - 3.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Yes, really very happy and light and enthusiastic.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Very bright and glowing
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Red, rosy cheeks
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Yes            X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No                             X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Feeling like she was                X
floating.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very much so.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.6                                         Loose and free.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
I suggest that this is now complete and the other two
items on the list have been taken care of as the pc
said, "I feel it's complete and the dizziness and
tiredness are run out now, as I don't feel them any
more after the last session. I only took them for a
short time when I had them." Pc had no other
ailments and felt really great and mentioned that
she felt she had had her power again. Re: dizziness
and tiredness items, pc said they occurred for a
short time while she had the stomach ache which
was run out in the last session.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 859




                Case 26
                [PICTURE#82] page 864


                860 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BM                                Date  15/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: GS                         No. of hours  17 min.
                                     Total hours




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-       Results &
                        Reads      tivity       Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of Session     4:15  3.6      6           Goals:
Dianetic Assist R3R
1. Locate an inc                                Inc. erased.
2. When was it?                                 F/N
3. Move to... (date)                            Process
                                                flat.
4. What is the duration of
the inc...                                      Pc looks
                                                bright
5. Move to the beginning of
that inc.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the inc. to
a point... later.
8. ...Okay ...continue
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the inc.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what
    happened.

        F/N           4:31  2.8     6           Meter Trim
                                                Check

End of Session        4:32  2.8     6           TA = 2







------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 861

TIME                                                TA


4:15         ~Start ofSession.~

Pulled a muscle.

                                                    3.75

~Feeling?~--stitch in your side.                    3.8

Pushing a needle in me                              4.0
and pushing it out.                                 4.2

~1.~ Yes.                                           4.5

~2.~ 1845

~3.~ Yes

~4.~ Half an hour.                                  3.8

~5.~

~6.~ I'm on a table, guy over me with a
knife, cutting my side to get some
evil out of me. After taking it out,
took a needle and stitched me up. I
wake up again just as he was putting
the needle in last time. I scream and
fell unconscious again.                             4.0 }
                                                LFBD    }
4:22                                                3.8 }

~9.~ I was given some gas, it wasn't
enough. I woke up too soon. I pulled
myself together and screamed and I
fell unconscious again.                           F 3.

~AB.~ Yes.                                     LFBD 3.6

~C.~                                                3.4

~D.~ I was on a table. Guy over me.
Took a knife to take evil out of me. I
screamed, tried to get up. Fell
unconscious again.                                  3.8

~Is the incident erasing?~

TIME                                                TA

Yes, I think so.                                    4.0

~AB.~                                             F.

~C.~ I was hanging on a table.
Guy takes some evil out of me. Guy was
screaming. I tried to get up then I fell
unconscious again.

4:25                                                4.5

~Earlier inc. ?~

                                                 F. 4.2 }
                                                        } BD
                                                 F. 3.8 }

Not that I can think of.                            4.2

~AB.~ Yes.                                          4.25

                                                  F BD

~C.~                                                3.8

~D.~ I was pulled on a table to cut
some evil out of my side. Then I
screamed and I pulled myself to-
gether then I fell unconscious again.

(Needle tight)

4:30                                         Rises  4.0

~Other incidents earlier that caused
the same feeling?~

No.

~Is the inc. erased?~                           LFBD

Oh,                     F/N                         3.0
I feel great!

GIs                     F/N INDICATED.

Pc smiling.

~End of Session~


                862 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 15/5/69
             or                        Time:
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BM (DAC Student Audit)
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                PC SAID NOTHING.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.75     Pc indicators: Very high, happy
                                     and joking.

State of needle: Clean

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 863


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BM             Date 15/5/69
Process run :R3R            TA 3.83    Time
                            Auditor


Goals and gains:
Process Dianetic Assist R3R to F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Ok
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes                                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.75
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Was pale and looked tired. From boredom
to happiness.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, more colored.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Yes         Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.8                                        Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Back to C/S
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 865




                Case 27
                [PICTURE#83] page 872


                866 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: CD                                Date  22/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours  1 - 40
Auditor: IP                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours  1 hr. 40 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-      Results &
                        Reads      tivity      Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of session    15:40   3.2                  Goals:
Referred to 16.5.69
C/S                         3.2                  Session was
                                                 slow at first
                                                 but was a big
                                                 win for pc
                                                 and auditor
                                                 towards end.
Referred to 30.4.69
W/S
Found feeling of burn and
ran chain on R3R.
R3R
1. Locate                   3.25
2. Date -
3. Move to -
4. Duration
5. Move to begin.
6. What you see
7. Move thru                                     Good
8. Ok, continue
9. What happened?                                GIs on
                                                 pc
                                                 (and
                                                 auditor)
    A. Move to begin
    B. Tell me when you
    there.
    C. Move thru to end.
    D. Tell me what
    happened.

Is it erase or got solid?

Earlier incident?

End of Session      16:17   2.3



------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:
Auditor to brush up a bit and repeat R3R.

                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 867

TIME                                                TA

14:40                                               3.2

~Start of session.~

Aud: ~What was the feeling of the
burnt oven incident?~

Pc: Felt like something was sizzling
in my back.

14:41                                               3.2

~1. Locate an incident that could
have caused a sizzling in my back
feeling.~                                           3.25

14:45                                               3.4

Pc quiet and frowns. Sighs noisily
. . . coughs weakly.

Pc: Oh, alright, got one.

~2.~ Aud: ~When was it?~

                                               3.25 sF

Pc mutters on date.

Calculates                                          3.3

1957, April 3rd.

~3.~ Alright.                                       3.4

~4. What is the duration of the
incident?~                                          3.5

Pc: About 20 min.                                   3.5

~5.~ Alright.                                       V 

~6.~ Ol' maid--Negro, big double sink,
it'll bold my size at that time.

~7.~ My mums left me with the old
Negro lady along with other kids &
we're watching TV.

~9.~ My ma left me at the house I was
watching and I messed in my                         BD
pants, so this maid takes me to this
hot bath. I got mad and                             LFBD
started screaming & the old lady said
I got to have another one.                          3.0

15:07 Aud: ~Is the incident                         [!!!]
erasing or going more solid?~

15:10

Solid.                                              [!!!]

~Earlier inc?~                                      3.5

Yes, when my back got                               sF
sunburned.                                          3.1

~2. When was it?~

Pc: March 14, 1963.

TIME                                                TA

~3.~ Aud: ~Move to . . .~

~3.~ Alright.                                       3.3

~4.~ 2 hrs.

~5.~ Aud: ~Move to beginning of . . .~

Pc: Yeah . . . aaah I got it.

15:15                                           3.1 sF

~6.~ I see this bunch of sand & my
friends.                                            3.1

~7. Move through the incident to a
point 2 hrs later. . .~                             3.3

Pc: Yeah, OK                                        BD

~8.~ Pc: I've already done that.

~9.~ Pc: On sand beach, hot & I sizzled
& I felt dry & crisp & I felt burning
like hell. The burning started, my
ma put                                              3.3
vinegar on my back, my brothers
had fun afterward peeling the skin
off my back.                                        3.

Aud: ~Is it erasing or going more
solid?~                                             LF

Pc: It's erasing, I'd say.                          BD

~A.~ Aud: ~Move to the beginning of
the incident.~

Pc: Alright.

~B.~ Pc: Yeah, ok.

~C.~ Aud: ~Scan thru~                               LFBD

                                                    2.6

~D.~ Aud: Pc looks bright. ~Tell me
what happened. ?~

I was on beach. It was sunny and we
went body surfing. We laid down in
the sun. My mom came to the beach
and drove us home. Got into the bath
(cough) (yawn) I refused to take
bath.

15:30

My brothers and sisters afterwards
peel the skin off my back.                          2.7

Pc sighs.

Pc does musical hum.

15:32                                               2.75

Aud: ~Is picture erasing or going
more solid?~

                868

TIME                                                TA

                                                    2.5

Pc: Picture is erasing.                             2.7 }
                                                  BD    }
Pc: is restless & more cheery.                      2.5 }

15:35                                               2.6

Aud: ~Does this incident interest
you?~

Pc: Neither way, just went to the
beach one time & I got sunburnt.                    2.9

~A.~ Alright.

~B.~ I'm there.

~C.~ Alright.                                       3.2

~D.~ I was at the beach with my
friends & laid in sun for 1/2 hr. My
mum drove me back & I took a bath
& I was burning like hell. The skin
. . . peeled off & my brothers                      3.
had great fun peeling it off.

~Is it erasing or going more solid?~

Solid.

~1. Locate an earlier similar inc. that
could be something like a sizzling in
your back.~ Yes.

~2.~ 1860, 50th day of the year.

~3.~ Move to . . .

Wow! My thumb's fallen asleep.

(Pc shifts & yawns.)

~4.~ It's a full day.

~5.~ Yeah, alright.

~6.~ I see a reflector.

~7.~ Ooh yeah (pc grins)

15:40

15:41 Pc twitches, yawns--curses.

                                                    sF

                                                    3.5

Pc silent                                           3.7

Pc more color                                       sF

15:50                                               3.4

Pc twitches and frowns, rolls head.
Lifts eyebrows.                                     3.5

15:58

~8.~ No, I've finished moving thru the
incident.

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ On this ship and they had
these ray things in those days.
I was on this ship with this king.
I saw this woman. I stowed away.
I got caught & pinned down. There
was this rectangular thing which was
reflected on me. They turned the
thing on once anyway and it (burp)
evaporated me & I could taste food,
& all these liquids were going into my
body. I let out a hell of a yell and then
I was dropped into this . . . this . . . pot
of acid & that was it.

Aud: ~How you doing?~                               sF

15:59

Pc: What do you know, I lost                        LFBD
my body. I can have it.                             2.8

16:01 Aud: ~Is the hot sizzling
feeling in your back erasing or going
more solid?~

Pc: It's erasing. Matter of fact,                   sF
I feel a lot better.

16:04                                               2.6

~A. Move to the beginning of the
incident.~                                          2.5

Yawn

Burp

~B.~ Ok.                                            2.7

~C.~ Pc white, sways

OK.                                                 2.9

                                                    2.7

~D.~ I was playing on the deck of this
ship. I had some kind of difficulty. I
had stowed away & they had me
down on the deck with a reflector on
me. It was about the same size as my
body (burp) & it dried me out. There
was some food nearby & I let out a
scream & they threw me into the
acid.
Anyway, I can                                       3.0 }
                                                        } LFBD
have that. That was                                 2.4 }
the incident.


		    869

TIME                                                TA

16:16 I can have it, it's cool.

Yawns                                               sF

Mutters

                                                    LFBD

Pc: OK, I feel it's finished.                       2.2

Pc yawns.

Anyway . . .                                        2.2

TIME                                                TA

Pc sings quietly.

16:17                                               2.2

~Has the incident erased or is it going
more solid?~                                        [!!!] [!!!]

Oh, it's gone.

~End of session.

                                                    VGIs.


                870 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 22/5/69
             or                        Time: 18
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :CD
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I ran through an incident a long, long time ago. (smiles)





------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.6              Pc indicators: GIs

State of needle: Clean

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 871



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:CD             Date 22/5/69
Process run :R3R            TA 2  Time
                            Auditor


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Pc did well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Very adequate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Plenty of movement
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No                                              -
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
3.75                                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.5 - 2.7
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Yes, improved
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Slightly sallow at first.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Less sallow.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
Little        Little                        No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes                            Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes                                Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.3                                            Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Lots more R3R
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 873




                Case 28
                [PICTURE#84] page 880


                874 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BFM                               Date  21/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor:                            No. of hours
                                     Total hours  1 hour




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-         Results &
                        Reads      tivity         Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
R3R Start of Session
                    8:50  3.2        5          Goals:
1. Locate an incident                           Ran 2 locks
                                                to F/N and
                                                birth
                                                engram
                                                erased.
2. When was it?
3. Move to...
4. What is the duration of                      F/N - 4
the incident?
5. Move to the beginning                        Process
of that inc.                                    flat.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the inc to
a point... later.
8. OK, continue
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the inc.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the
    end of the inc.
    D. Tell me what happened.                   Meter trim
                                                check

End of session      9:50  2.1        5          TA 2 = 2






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 875

TIME                                                TA

~Start of session.~

8:50         Sens 8                              TA 3.2

Item--as a very heavy bar on my
forehead and somewhere on the top
of my head.                                         3.1

~1.~ Pc laughing, laughing. A picture I
just feel a weight in my head.

~2.~ Could be                                       2.5
very long time ago. Laughing.
About Christ's time.

~3.~

~4.~ My goodness. For this one                      3.6
3 minutes.

~5.~ It looks like hours, hmm.

~6.~ I just see an enormous mass
about 10 cm high. It's gray. There is
someone there in this scene. I see a
face with gray hair, it's a man.

~7.~ Pc laughing.

I'm afraid to confront.
Horrible (laughing).

I have a repulsion to confront this. I
feel . . .

c'est tres . . .
c'est tres long
C'est tres . . .

It's unreasonable.
It's unbelievable.

~9.~                                                2.25

Somebody was                                        2.3
doing something. I don't know if the
body is mine. I see somebody below
me. A man without hair. It's funny,
I'm just not moving. There is no
motion.                                             2.25
I'm very surprised.
I saw . . . GI's                                    F/N

(Pc laughing)

It's just exteriorization.

            F/N INDICATED                           VGIs.

Item--feeling to be very hot.

9:08                                                2.25

~1.~ Pc laughing.

TIME                                                TA

I'm just thinking                                   2.0
of being born.
(Pc laughing) I'm very happy.

~2.~ Oh! Laughing make me so bad
I cannot speak!
(laughing) I'm hot again. It seems
that's it now. We'll say in '69. Oh! the
time.                                               2.0
I had to translate in French. It was
early in the morning. We were on the
ship, one month ago.

~3.~

~4.~ I'm just in the dining room.
I have just to confront the people.
I get a hurt in my neck. I have to go
fast. It's about the duration.
Could be half an hour at least.

~5.~                                                2.25

~6.~ I was sleeping in the Stewards'
Dorm. Close the dining room fast,
and I sit down. I try to be in                      2.2
present time translating.

~7.~

~9.~ Ah! I'm unable to say to you.
I do not understand why it was so. I
had a difficulty. It was a risk to be
really fast. Better to show an
appearance of quietness, politeness.
I was aware of this. It's good. (Pc
laughing)

            GI    F/N INDICATED

I was afraid of having a F/N here
because my heart is very tired.                     2.1

~Is there an earlier inc . . .~

I get the pict.                                     2.25
of my brother. I was very young, 4
years old. Suddenly I was crying and
very hot.

~2.~ In 1947, July                                  2.5

~3.~ Ya.

~4.~ One minute.                                    2.6

~5.~ Hmm-hmm.

~6.~ I just see my brother stand up
and I sit down.

                876  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

(laugh)                                             2.2 LFBD

I'm crying. He just stands up.

~7.~                                                2.3 }
                                                        } LFBD
                                                    2.1 }

I feel still anxious.                               2.25 }
                                                         } LFBD
~8.~ (laughing)                                      2.0 }

I was yelling. I was very hungry
that's all.                                         2.1

~9.~ I don't know. I wanted to have
this portion. He didn't want me to.
He was just there.                                  2.25

~AB.~ Ya.                                           2.1

~C.~ I'm wanting to speak.                          2.25

(Pc laughing)

It's very funny.

I see myself crying.                                2.1

He was very upset.

~D.~                                                2.3

I'm just thinking that                              2.25
the chambre was not so bad. I was
really in grief because he forced me
like that.

(laughing)

(Pc happy)          F/N INDICATED

There's more on this chain.

9:26                                                2.9

~Earlier inc?~

Yes. This anxiety before being born.

~2.~ Funny date
It's really present.

~3.~ Ya.                                            2.0

~4.~ It's very long, one hour.                      2.1
You know I'm thinking of                            2.25
identification. Two people in black,
one on my left, one on my right. My
stomach                                             2.0
Wack! (Laughing)

~5.~ (Pc seems uncomfortable, is
crying, yet still smiling.)

~6.~ Just the                                       2.0
picture I described                                 2.2
to you.                                             2.0
Something high in front of my eye.
And it was about 3 meters above the

TIME                                                TA

floor. It seems something very
high and I have to be at this place.

~7.~ I don't like to confront this.
It's hard. I'm trembling. My foot is
very tired. I cannot speak. They
expect something from me. There is
nothing. Each time I wait I'm in the
same state, awed.

(Laughing and crying)

I could not move my emotion and I
have my hands attached.

(Pc laughing)                                       2.0

It's just black and                                 2.1
white and in the same time and a
relief of hope and expectation death
it was too hot.

~9.~                                                1.9

Just nothing. Just                                  2.0
a silence, so empty.         (Pc crying)
There was certainly a lot of people.
Then two men in black. A real
desert. Just gray sky.

9:37 (crying)                                       2.2

(Pc laughing and crying now.)

~AB.~ I'm still there.                              1.9

~C.~ I have on a white dress.
I was horrified and cannot move.
On this same time. I have a lot of
consideration. I try to project this
to somebody else because I refuse
to accept that it happens to myself.

~D.~ In the same                                    2.1
time I was very afraid. I must go
back. Just that I was                               2.2
fixed in this place completely para-
lyzed by the future. They said that I
was a sorceress, something like that.
My goodness I have to move. I have
to walk. Oh! I feel now I have to walk
but I was unconscious. Brrr!                        2.1
(laugh) I was completely                            2.2
unconscious. I think it's going now,
it's okay. It's finished.                           1.9

~AB.~                                               2.2

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 877

TIME                                                TA

                                                    2.1

I just have this pict. Fixing this
table.                                              2.1

~C.~                                                2.1

I'm going to cry                                    2.2

(Pc laughing)                                       1.9

Something recovering.                               2.1

Somebody beside me loved me very
much. It was too hot to leave.

~D.~ Just fixed (crying) physically.
So it was impossible to move.                       2.25
All that mass was so heavy just like
lead on my back,                                    2.1

TIME                                                TA

and my feet. But I tell you that
something very curious is hap-
pening. My body is feeling lighter
and my legs. So tuned.                              2.0
I feel my legs.                                     2.1
I have them to carry me and to walk.
And that's it.

It's nice to see you. I feel so happy.

            F/N INDICATED                           2.1

(laughing)

9:50 My heart is relieved.

Very good indicators.

I feel very relieved.


                878 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 21/5/69
             or                        Time: 21:55
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :BFM (Sent by DAC Auditor)
Last grade attained :IV
             or
Grade being attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
(No statement)
(laughs)






------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.3             Pc indicators: Very good.

State of needle: Clean and floating

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 879


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BFM           Date 21/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA     Time 1 hr.
                           Auditor


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very well.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
100%
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
4
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Very loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
1.8                                            Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.1
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
From happy to unhappy grief, happy, exhilaration.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, more color
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No            Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.1
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Pc wants very much to be continued on other
chains. To do this -
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 881




                Case 29
                [PICTURE#85] page 887


                882 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: MM                                Date  18/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: GS                         No. of hours
                                     Total hours  22 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-        Results &
                        Reads      tivity        Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of session  8:45  2.75      6               Goals:
Assessment for longest
read.                                             Chain erased.
R3R                                               F/N = 3

1. Locate an incident that
could have caused the                             Pc happy
feeling of...                                     and bright.
2. When was it?
3. Move to...                                     Process
                                                  flat.
4. What is the duration of
the inc.
5. Move to the beginning
of that incident.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the inc
to a point... later.
8. Okay, continue.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning
    of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are
    there.
    C. Scan through to the end                   Trim check
    of the incident.
    D. Tell me what happened.                    TA 2 = 1.9

        F/N       9:07  2.3       6

End of session    9:07  2.3       6






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 883

TIME                                                TA

List of somatics.                                   [!!!]

Tiredness.

Confusion.

Hot sticky feeling

~Start of session.~                                 2.75

Time = 8:45

~We are going to extend the list of
somatics, sensations and misemo-
tions.~

OK.

~Other somatics?~                                   2.8

Pc thinking.

Not many.

OK.

~Other sensations, misemotions?~

I have had a secondary on my second
dynamic. Me the effect of a girl
Sort of feeling.
It's a lovesick feeling.

~Others?~

No.

List 8:30                                           LFBD

Tiredness -- x

Confusion -- sF                                     3.00

Hot sticky feeling -- sF

Lovesick feeling -- x

~Confusion. Interested?~ Yes.

~1.~                                              F 2.75

~2.~

June 31, 1968, 7:30 in the morning.

~3.~ OK                                             3.25

~4.~ About an hour to
Two hours                                           3.5

~5.~ OK.

~6.~ The Bulletin                                   LFBD
Board                                               3.2
About 10 people. Me with a felt pen.
I'm standing and looking.                           3.3

~7.~ Very late at night.                            3.5
Writing at this board.                           LF 3.4
Someone is there.
Both confused what's supposed to
happen. Place is in state of chaos.

TIME                                                TA

We don't know what is supposed to
happen.                                             3.75
These people have finished.
We were sitting. (laugh) Just confused.
My god we are tired.                                3.8
We think how good it will be to go down to
the ship. Would be such fun.

~9.~ We'd been up all night. The 3rd
Mate put us in an Ethics condition.

                                                    LFBD

                                                    3.75

8:38

~AB.~ Okay                                          3.75 }
~C.~                                            LFBD 3.5 }

Pc deep thinking.

(Looks tired is as if asleep.) OK.

~D.~ I just looked at a confusion, I
didn't understand that I was respon-
sible for.                                          3.5
                                                       BD
                F/N INDICATED                       2.75

~Is there an earlier inc. ?~

8:42                                              F 2.5

Pc thinking.                                        2.7

                                                    2.8

                                                    2.9

I guess not.

Oh, wait a second.      F

I did that.                                         2.75

~2.~ June 22

~3.~ LF

OK

~4.~ About 5 min.

~5.~ OK.

~6.~ My body sleeping in my bunk                    2.5
in the Men's Dorm.

~7.~ OK                                        LFBD 2.3

~9.~ I was in my bunk. I was dead
tired. I slept on the top bunk.
Someone pulled me on the floor and
we had a fight. That's all.                         2.4


                                                    F/N

                            VGIs                    LFBD }
                                                         }
                    F/N INDICATED                   2.25 }

__________ extension list

                884 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

Hernia operation                                    2.5
Feeling keyed-out right now. Like
pain in my right leg in my right side.

sF. ~Interested?~ Yes.

                                                    2.5

~1.~ F     OK                                       2.5

~2.~                                                2.6

Sept 18, 1962

~3.~ OK                                             2.7

~4.~ About 8 hours

~5.~ OK                                             2.8

~6.~ A man in ahospital room.                   3.0 LF

~7.~

~8.~ Okay

8:50

~9.~ (Pc thinking as asleep.)                       3.2

                                                    3.25

                                                    3.5

                                                    3.6

                                                    3.7

8:52                                              F 3.8

                                                 LF 3.75

                                                    3.7 }
                                                        }
                                              LFBD 2.25 }

8:55                                            F/N 2.3

Needle very loose.

I went for an op.
The doctor
right there and made a hole. He took
my testicles and pushed them down.
So the lower part was cut. It was
very repulsive. I awoke about                       2.75
7 hours later.                                      3.0
I was hurt, man.                                    3.2

~AB.~ OK.                                         F 3.3

~C.~ OK                                             3.4 }
                                                        }
~D.~                                           LFBD 3.0 }

Body just slipped open. I wake                      3.0
up. That's all. OK.

TIME                                                TA

~Is incident going more solid?~ Yes.

                                                    2.75

~Earlier inc.~

Yes.                                                2.75

~2.~ 47,500 trillion years ago.

~3.~ OK                                          LF 2.6

~4.~ 30 sec.

~5.~                                            LFBD

~6.~ I see me in a doll body. I'm
broken. (Pc is crying)

~7.~ They put me in the repair shop
I'm broken and I'm a doll.

9:02 ohh!

(Pc crying)                                         2.3

~9.~ Laughing                                       LF

I was taken to the repair shop. My
right leg wasn't functioning. He put
me down. They put me on                             2.25
an assembly line. They cut the metal
right across my lower half
(laughing)                                          2.25
And it hurt.
He threw it away.
That was that. I can feel the somatic
here going.

9:05

~AB.~ All right.

~C~                                                 2.30

        OK.

~D.~ Just the same thing. He cut me
open on an assembly line.

9:07

Pc: The chain is erased.

(Laugh)         IND.         F/N                    2.3

Pc looks very happy and bright,
laughing.

~End of session.~


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 885



                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date:  17/5/69
Medical              :              Time:  9:22
Pc or Pre-OT name    :MM
Last grade attained  :VA
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
I had an F/N there. I erased the basic on a chain
75 trillions years ago. I kept hitting
a this-lifetime incident. (laugh)







------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 2.5   Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                886 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:MM            Date 16/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA 6.35 Time 22 min.
                           Auditor GS


Goals and gains:
Chain erased
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Very good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
100 percent
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Yes, 3.75
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.00
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
From boredom to self-confidence.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Bright
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No         Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown

------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.3                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
To C/S
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 889




                Case 30
                [PICTURE#86] page 897

                890 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BG                               Date  28/4/69
                         No. of intensive hours  3 hrs. 50 min.
Auditor: WJ                        No. of hours  1 hr. 14 min.
                                    Total hours  5 hrs. 4 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-       Results &
                        Reads      tivity       Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of session  14:58  3.2         16         Goals:

Assess list.

Pc's interested
in tension        16:50  3.0          5

End of session    17:02  2.9          5         F/N GIs






------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 891

TIME                                                TA

~Start of session.~

15:48                                               3.2

R-factor -- assess list.

Assess list of feelings.

Agonizing pain -- LF

Feeling of tiredness -- sF

Embarassment, null --                               2.9

Lack of control -- null

Pc's interest is on this head shake of
mine. Unwanted sensation.

. . . probably a feeling of mine.                   3.0
. . . interest on this.

~What's feeling of that?~

Tension     LF

R3R                                                 3.0

~1.~ . . .
. . .

~2.~ Jan 27, 1959

~3. Move to.~

~4. Duration?~

About 1 hour.

~5.~

~6. What do you see?~

                                                    3.1

Sitting opposite someone doing
TR-0.

~7. Move thru incident.~                            3.2
I feel, sitting opposite person. feel
backing off, an elsewhereness, want
to escape. Refuse to do so. Conflict of
that's silly and forcing myself.

1552                                                3.4

Feeling my head turning at an angle
twisting away. Ridge of pressure
across back of neck. Coach con-
stantly having to straighten my
head up.
Feeling of acute tension at position
of confront and not being able to
hold up my head in a relaxed
position.

15:54                                               3.7

. . . reality that I had an aberration
that others didn't in regard to facing

TIME                                                TA

other people. Couldn't control or
overcome it. Fighting hard to sit up
straight, look square in the eye,
I did but head kept turning away.

                                                    3.9

I didn't want to expose myself.
Something the other person might
see.

~9. What happened?~

I realized as I went through it, at
that time I didn't have head shake,
just twisting way, later developed
into a natural shake. As I did more
training and processing, twisting
developed into a head shake--with
everything, not just people.

                                                    3.7

~AB. Move to begin, tell me when
there~   Right

~C. Scan thru~

15:58                                               3.8

Impatience with myself that I was
finding this so difficult to do. I found
all sorts of sensations turning on.
Couldn't keep my head upright.
Keep it upright and no one will know
I have a weakness.

15:59                                               3.9

Coach says "You are confronting me
with your left cheek." She'd
straighten it up. Try not to show I
was fighting it. Head going around
and back. (Pc's head moving just like
he's saying.) Stiffness at back of
neck. Pressure, particularly on left
side.

~D. Tell me what happened?~

I was fed up. Seemed such a silly thing.
I was highly aware of it before that,
only vaguely. TR-0
caught it.

~Erasing/Solid?~

It has gone solid.

16:04                                               3.7

                892 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

[!!!] ~Earlier similar incident?~

                                                    3.8

Yes . . .

~2. When?~                                          3.6

1934, May, 16th.

~3. Move to . . .~

~4. Duration?~

3 seconds.

~5. Move to~

~6. What do you see?~

16:06                                               3.7

At a swimming bath.

~7. Move thru incident.~

Standing at a railing, looking down.
There's a chap next to me that I
know. Suddenly aware of him look-
ing at me. I turned and looked at
him. He laughed. I said "What's so
funny?" "You're a funny little chap,"
he said. I didn't reply. Felt tension
and annoyance.

16:08                                               3.9

What was there about me?

~9. What happened?~

Wondering why that incident has
stuck; nothing in it apart from that.

~AB. Move to beginning. Tell me
when you are there.~                                3.8

~C. Scan through to the end of the
incident.~

This chap started staring at me. He
was taller than me. I was gazing
intently in front of me. Turned and
looked at him. He smiling and
laughing. Tried not to show annoy-
ance, that it didn't worry me.
"You're a funny little chap," and he
laughed. I wanted to press on.

                                                    3.9

Something stopped me, Show that I
was too sensitive. I shut up.

~D. Tell me what happened.~

16:12                                               4.0

Feeling that his look restimulated
something.

TIME                                                TA

~Erasing?~

No.

[!!!]  An earlier similar incident?~

16:13                                               3.7

Yes.

~2. When?~

19:22 14th Jan.

~3. Move to~

~4. Duration?~

25 min.

~5. Move to~

~6. What do you see?~

16:15                                               3.7

I'm watching boxing at school.

~7. Move thru incident to a point 25
min later.~

Big school hall and boxing ring. My
father. I'm watching. All boarding
school boys are older than me. Not
to take part in boxing. Another
chap there my age. I realized they'd
decided to let the two of us have a
go. I was scared, terrified. Tried not
to show. Knew I couldn't refuse.
Sheer terror. Eventually, I got a
plan. Went up to him, said "I know
nothing about boxing, take it easy
will you." He nodded. Real terror in
me, in stomach, trembling. Put on
gloves.

16:18                                               3.9

Out of sheer necessity I rushed in
and swung punches. Realized I was
hammering hell out of him. Didn't
stop; went on pummeling him until
they stopped us. Feeling of exhila-
ration.

16:20                                               3.8

~9.~ Sheer terror out of all danger or
risk involved. Feeling that I've got
to,
annoyed and impatient.

~A. Move to beginning.~

~B. Tell me when you are there.~

~C. Scan thru.~

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 893

TIME                                                TA

16:21                                               3.6

Absolute panic, where did it come
from? I was almost too frightened to
worry about tension. It was there,
but overwhelmed by fear. As soon as
I got on top I hit him as hard as I
could.

~D. Tell me what happened.~

16:25                                               3.8

First realization this life that I was
subject to this intensity of feeling.

                                                    3.7

Felt so much more tense than other
people.

~Erasing?~ No.

[!!!] ~Earlier similar inc?~

Yes.

16:27                                               3.2

~2. When~

4th Nov, 1919

~3.~ Right.

~4. Duration?~

16:29                                               3.3

Five minutes.

~5. Move to the beginning of that
incident.~                                          3.4

~6. What do you see?~

See my mother standing in the light
and father is on the floor.

16:30                                               3.6

~7. Move thru.~

I wake up aware of ghastly scene:
mother angry, whisky bottle in
hand, father on floor drunk.

16:31                                               3.8

First thought is that they must
never know I'm awake and seeing
what's happening. I still watch.
Mother breaks top off bottle. Pours
whisky into bucket, all the time
speaking very angrily, telling father
what she thinks of him. Anger is
intense. Feel excitement at being
able to witness this with no one
knowing it. Got feeling of tension if

TIME                                                TA

mother found me looking. Another
part of me wanted to stand up and
defend father. Didn't have the
courage. Closed my eyes. Make sure
I wasn't found out, stayed listening.

16:34                                               4.0

Such uncontrolled anger. Never
known mother so angry. Father was
so drunk he was just grunting.
Hate, how could he be so weak. Why
couldn't he be a man and overcome
the weakness of drink. If others
could see him now. He was a
wretched creature. Useless indivi-
dual. Sodden. Even hiding the filthy
stuff away, drinking it secretly,
until you're in this foul state. You all
say you'll stop it, you haven't got
the guts. Ruining my life, your own
life. What's the use. I could kill you.
Worthless creature.

~9. What happened?~                                 3.4

Great sense of shock at first. It was
16:39      unbelievable.

Had no idea of drunkeness up to
then. Didn't know he got drunk and had
these drinking bouts. Shock mainly,
excitement, tension. No one must
even know I witnessed this, the
postulate here. Terribly embarrassing
if they do know.

~AB. Move to begin. Tell me when~
                                                    ~3.4~

16:42                                               3.5

~C. Scan thru.~

I wake up. Scene is in full blast.
Mother telling father how weak
he is. He was owner and headmaster
of the school. Behaving like this.
What if boys at school knew. Even
to point of hiding the stuff away
from me. Next day they both knew
that I knew. Lie still and breathe
evenly. Felt mother might look this
direction at any moment. Nice and

                894 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

safe with eyes closed. Life would be
impossible if I looked again. What
would we do the next day. Sense of
power knowing about something that no
one else knew.

16:50                                               4.0

~D. Tell me what happened.~

Not sensing anything. Picture as an
impression. Not as a live picture.
Don't feel I'm right back in incident.
(Belch)

                                                    3.9

~Erasing?~

I think it is.
I've run it before. Still some charge.

                                                    3.75

~AB. Move to begin.~

~C. Scan thr.~

Lying on my side. Wake up. First
sense absolute shock. Mother livid with
anger, saying "What would you think if
I did that?" "Drink a curse."
"It's you not the drink." "Just a puppet."
If he knew I'd seen him

TIME                                                TA

drunk on the floor. If I could just
keep my eyes closed, I'd know about
it, and carry on as before. Must
look as though I'd slept the night
thru. I did fall asleep.

~D. Tell me what happened.~

Lot of pressure round head.

17:00                                               3.8

But within the shock was this
masked decision to not expose
myself to her gaze.                                 3.6
Could easily be a start of a service
fac.

                                                    3.4

Not to expose myself. Don't let
anybody know I'm looking. And
never know what happened.

                     F/N                            3.0

(Acknowledged)   F/N INDICATED

17:02                                               2.9

~End of Session~

Pc GIs in.

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 895



                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date:  30/9/69
Medical              :              Time:  6:30 PM
Pc or Pre-OT name    :BG
Last grade attained  :
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ran a secondary. Each time I seem to get a bit more
charge off. Source of at least 1 service fac this lifetime.



------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 3.0   Pc indicators:

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                896 BOOK THREE


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BG            Date 30/4/69
Process run :R3R           TA 3.1 Time 1 hr. 14 min.
                           Auditor WJ


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Ok
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Good
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes, one.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Flowing
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
3.0 - 3.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Calm, yes.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Ok
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes, one
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.2                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
C/S, Assess and run R3R.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 899




                Case 31
                [PICTURE#87] page 903


                900 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: CJ                                Date  29/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: WJ                         No. of hours  28 min.
                                     Total hours  28 min.




Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-       Results &
                        Reads      tivity       Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of session     18:51  2.5        16          Goals:

Assess feeling list.

Which feeling are you
most interested in.  18:52  2.4        16

Funny feeling

End of session       19:19  2.0         5          F/N.
                                                   Color
                                                   good.

                                                   Very
                                                   pronounced
                                                   GIs.





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 901

TIME                                                TA

~Start of session.~

18:51                                               2.5

Assess List

[!!!] Felt sick -- LF

Swollen throat

with pain -- null

Slight pain -- null

Sort of nervous -- null

[!!!] Funny feeling -- null

Don't like to sit still but
like moving -- F

Scary feeling -- null

Want to move -- null

Get a sharp pain when
I eat sometimes -- null

[!!!] ~Which most interested in?~

18:52                                               2.4

Funny feeling and nervous feeling.

~Which of the two would you like to
run first?~

Funny feeling.

R3R

~1.~ Yes.

18:54                                               2.3

~2.~ (Comm lag)                                     2.4

Some time when I was a kid. About
7 or 8 years old. Year 1957 or '58.

                                                    2.2

~3.~                                                2.2

~4. Duration?~

18:56                                               2.2

(Comm lag)

About 5 min.

~5.~

~6.~ See a tree and there's a big fat
woman. I'm just outside a house.

~7. Move through.~

18:58                                               2.25

19:02                                               2.3

~9. What happened?~                                 2.1

Had to ask to get some magazines.
She looked at me and I got that funny
feeling, especially in my stomach.

19:03                                               2.2

TIME                                                TA

Than she went away.

~AB. Move to beginning. Tell me when.~

19:04                                               2.1

(Pc moving)                                         2.2

Yes.                                                2.1

~C. Scan through to the end of the
incident.~

19:06                                               2.2

~D. Tell me what happened.~

Standing outside the door. She
comes rushing by.                                   2.1
Ask to get magazine back. Get funny
feeling. She looks at me and says
"Yes," and doesn't really listen.
Feeling very funny especially in my
stomach.

19:08                                               2.4

~Erasing?~

No.

~Earlier incident?~

19:08                                               2.2

(Comm lag)

19:11                                               2.4

No.

~AB. Move to begin. Tell me when
there.~                                             2.2

19:12                                               2.2

~C. Scan through.~                                  2.1

19:14                                               2.3

~D. Tell me what happened.~

I was standing there, she comes by,
Ask her for magazines. Get funny
feeling.
She says "Yes" and leaves. Still
have funny feeling.

~Erasing?~                                          2.1

Yes.

~AB. Move to begin.~

19:15                                               2.2

~C. Scan through.~

~D. Tell me what appened.~

I was standing there, she comes by,
ask for mags.

                902 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

                                                    2.2

She says "Yes" and leaves.

~Erasing/more solid?~

It's erased!

19:17                                               2.2

                                                    F/N

19:18                                               2.0

I had a cognition too.
Why I get this when                                 1.9

TIME                                                TA

I talk to certain persons.

(Acknowledged)         F/N INDICATED

                                                    2.0

19:19

~End of session.~

Color very good.

Very pronounced GIs.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 905




                Case 32
                [PICTURE#88] page 912


                906 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: GM                                Date  25/4/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: WA                         No. of hours  1 hr. 39 min.
                                     Total hours  1 hr. 39 min.


                                          TA 2.5

Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-          Results &
                        Reads      tivity          Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Start of session     3:40  2.80        6           Goals:  .5
This is the process  3:40  2.80        6

1. Incident
2. When was it?
3. Move to incident
4. Duration of inc.
5. Move to the beginning
of that incident.
6. What do you see?
7. Move through the incident
to a point (duration)
later.
8. What happened?
9. Is it getting more solid?

        F/N          5:19  2.10        6

End of session       5:19  2.10        6





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 907

TIME                                                TA

~Have you had enough sleep?~ Yes.

~Have you had enough to eat?~ Yes.

~Any alcohol in last 24 hours?~ No.

Assessment.

Tonsillitis

Food poisoning

Double pneumonia

headaches -- x

Ache in spine -- x

Ache in neck -- x

Seasickness -- x

Bored - - -

Blocked feeling on left side of nose.               F

~Int?~ Yes.

~1.~

~2.~ May 28, 1953

~3.~ Alright.

~4.~ 3 weeks.

~5.~

~6.~ My bedroom, a bed and there is
this my body in bed, blankets,
curtains.

~7.~ Pc moving head, swallowing
hard, moving body.

~9.~ I moved through incident. It's hot.
I was in bed most of the time.
Pictures flashed by couple of quick
ones. My lungs
a bit odd. Somatic there towards
end started to speed up.

3:50                                                2.50

~AB.~ Alright.

~C.~ Bedroom table, sort of a
wooden table. I am in the bed.

~D.~ Saw a few pictures. Felt hot
again. Chipping outside disturbed me
quite a bit. That's about all.

~Is it erasing or going more solid?~

I got interested in it at beginning
and now it is just another incident.

              GIs

3:55     F/N INDICATED                              2.4

Tonsillitis. ~Feeling?~

Sore throat.     LF     ~Int?~ Yes.

TIME                                                TA

~1.~ Yes.

~2.~ Dec 23, 1955

~3.~ Yes.

~4.~ It was a two weeks.

~5.~

~6.~ Hospital ward, sheets nurse,
container, white sheets, window, blood
(Pc laughing.) It's fantastic.

~9.~ I went through fast.
Flew thru whole incident as one
incident (laughed). Then I went back and
looked at pictures. Got pict. of
operating room pictures of having sore
throat when I came around nurse calling
out to me couldn't hear her
saying "Turn over, turn around," something
like that.
I heard chipping. My attention went to
that again. (Aud went outside for
second time and told people to not
bang as it is disturbing my pc.)

~AB.~ Alright

~C.~ Hospital ward I am dressed
up in an operating robe ties up at back.
I am being prepared for an operation.

(Pc swallowing)

                            breathing

                                                 BD 2

Deep breath

Burp.

laugh -- burp

Okay.

~D.~ Got this thing of being
wheeled into operating room.
Doctor counting. Sleeping. Stony
impression. Became operator,
changed identities and when
I saw that I laughed and that blew.
Shifted back to being operated on;
wasn't sore, no pain. Throat is
getting sore now, got feeling of not
being there.
Sore throat somatics. Trying to talk

                908 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

and eat. Being told I would have to
use my throat to eat.

~Erasing or going more solid?~

Erasing.

~AB.~

~C.~ Bedroom ward, nothing there.
There's nothing there. I feel like I am
re-creating it now.

        F/N INCIDATED

4:20      GIs.                                      2.30

Headaches. -- pain in my head.                      LF

~Int?~ Yes.

~1.~ Yes.

~2.~ When I cracked my head when
I was 2-3 yrs old.

Doll fell on my head.
About 1948

~3.~ Okay.

~4.~ Couple of hours, head pain about
one week.

~5.~ Alright.

~6.~ I see dining room and lounge wall.
My body, servant girl.
She's very small, entrance step,
furniture, table.

~7.~ Pc breathing heavy. Screwing face up.

Deep breaths.

~8.~ Found a pain in my head not
very sharp
Get a picture of being held, stitched
up skull. I was awake, bellowing
screaming, kicking. Quite an ordeal.
The rest of it I just went through
it.

~AB.~ Alright.

~C.~ I see room in which there
is . . . I am getting a back up of pictures,
a couple of pictures are colliding.
Mother screaming at servant girl.
Somatic in my head.

Pc squirming, burp, burping                         BD

~D.~ Okay. I went through an incident, saw
the doctor; my head being held back
and stitched up. I felt

TIME                                                TA

anger this time. I think I blew
something. I was all held down, got
angry at all the inflow of hurting.

~Is it getting more solid?~

Yes.

~Earlier similar?~

It is like I have moved back to
the time.

~Ack~

Yeah.

~2.~ 1945, August 15.

~3.~ Pc laughing.

~4.~ About 4 or 5 hours.

~5.~

~6.~ It keeps on changing. I see
bodies dead, bodies soldiers running.
Pain in my head now. I see this guy in
front of me, and an explosion.
Shrapnel flies into stomach, neck and
maybe his head.

~7.~ Deep breathing, burp, eyes opened.

~9.~ Moved through the incid. felt somatic
on my right side of head seems
to be gone. Running, bomb exploded, shrapnel.
Eye, head throat. Get pain in my throat. Fell
down body dead. Sort of smiled, put up a
good show. Then German soldier put boot on
my head.

~AB.~ Alright.

~C.~ It starts off dark. Ah, I must have
been in trench. Look at sand in
trench.
Deep breathing, blowing breath out. Alright.

~D.~ Jumped over trench, ran into
exploded shell.
Shouting
really got feeling of dying. Pain--no not pain
it's a pain and fear. Something which is quite
lousy. And then this German running over and
putting a boot on my head.

~Solid?~ Yes.

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 909

TIME                                                TA

~Earlier similar?~

Blasted in head.

~2.~ 21 trillion years ago.

~3.~ Okay.

~4.~ 5 min.

~5.~

~6.~ Landscape, walking around in
space suit. Then I see grey rock in
front of me. Small hill ground
brownish-reddish.

~7.~ Alright.

~9.~ Got this funny feeling of something
funny. Fellow jumped out behind a
rock and shot me, it was like a game.

~AB.~

~C.~ I see a face of a character who
jumped out from behind rock with ray
gun in his hand. Odd.

~9.~ This guy jumped up, looked to me
like some kind of creature. Long
type of face. He shot at me and I fell down.
Felt as if I died. Felt whole thing was
very unimportant.

                    F/N INDICATED.

5:05                                                2.30

Pc bringing up about pressure on
his face.

It's my motivator-overts
against people's heads.

~1.~ Yes.

TIME                                                TA

~2.~ Sept 13, 1957.

~3.~ Alright.

~4.~ Ten minutes.

~5.~

~6.~ I see this room, yard outside
room. I am standing outside chasing
cats.

~7.~ Alright

(Moving head.)

Felt more than 10-20 minutes--quickly
shot through incident. I saw myself
trying to catch small cat.

~9.~ Couldn't get this one. Grabbed a
spade, swiped at this cat's head and
took cat's head off. The cat was not
very happy with losing his head.

~AB.~ Alright.

~C.~ Room, bed, couple of bits of
furniture around

~D.~ Alright. Just looked at myself in the
room acting and dramatizing out
with spade. Ah, well, you know how it is.
Mother found cat with head
chopped off.
Did I do that?

~Is it getting more solid?~

[!!!] No, in fact becoming very thin.

        F/N INDICATED

5:19                                             TA 2.10

~That's it.~

                910 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

                                   Qual Div: Flag
Before session exam :                  Date: 25/4/69
             or                        Time: 17:20
After session exam  :v
Pc, Pre-OT name     :GM
Last grade attained :VA
             or
Grade being attested:Dianetics

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says. Don't ask any
questions):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
LF BD 2.5
      2.25

Laugh
      GIs

IND   F/N


------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why pc came to Examiner:


TA position: 2.25             Pc indicators:

State of needle: F/N

Note any further data required by C/S:

Examiner routes:          To Case Supervisor:

                          or (if medical treatment required)

                          To Case Supervisor:
                          via
                          Medical Officer

(Examination form must be placed in pc folder before going to C/S).








                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 911


                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:WA              Date 25/4/69
Process run :R3R Dianetics   TA 2.5 Time 1 hr. 39 min.
                             Auditor GM


Goals and gains:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Excellent
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Somatics on and off, good recall.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Loose
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
                    X                           X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
Once - 2.5                                    2.3
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.25 - 2.50
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Apathy to enthusiasm.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.
Yes, lighter color
------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
X            X                            X
------------------------------------------------------------------------

13. Any comm lags.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
                    X         X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
                    X               X
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes, but there is lots to run yet.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.10                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
Continue C/S - 2 instructions
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 913

Dianetic        STANDARD DIANETIC C/S No. 2
Form

___________                                      __________
	Preclear                                   	Date

    1.        Make a list of any occasional or
current illnesses, unwanted sensations, aches,
pains, disabilities, tiredness feelings,
misemotion, fears, dislikes.

    2.      Assess for longest read.

    3.      Compare with pc's interest
(don't audit it unless pc agrees that's it.)

    4.      Do R3R on it.

    5.      If it goes more solid or is not
erasing after going through it twise, go
earlier, asking for "an earlier incident with
similar somatic, ache, pn, etc."

    6.      Erase basic on the chain.

    7.      End off on that chain if you get an
F/N or an erasure.

    8.      Reassess, repeat the R3R on new chain.

    9.      End off session only on very
pronounced GIs.

    10.    Return folder to me.

                                                    _______________
                                                            C/S


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 915




                Case 33
                [PICTURE#89] page 928
                [PICTURE#90] page 929
                [PICTURE#91] page 930


                916 BOOK THREE


                AUDITOR'S REPORT FORM

Preclear: BG                                Date  21/5/69
                          No. of intensive hours
Auditor: TK                         No. of hours  4 + 10
                                     Total hours


                                         TA 26.4

Environment            Auditor           Withholds            PTP
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Process           Time  Tone-Arm   Sensi-        Results &
                        Reads      tivity        Comments
------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the session 13:12  3.75     6            Goals:
R-factor
Add to list         13:16  3.7      6            BD
Assess List         13:17  3.4      6
R3R                 13:18  3.4      6

1. Locate incident
2. When was it?
3. Move to ______.
4. What is the duration of
the incident?
5. Move to the beginning
of that.
6. Close your eyes. What
do you see?
7. Move thru the incident
to a point _____ later.
8. Okay, continue.
9. What happened?
    A. Move to the beginning of the incident.
    B. Tell me when you are there.
    C. Scan thru to the end of the incident.
    D. Tell me what happened.
E/S  Is the incident erasing or becoming more solid?
Locate an earlier incident which caused a similar _____.
    F/N             14:30  2.95     6            F/N
    Assess List     14:41  2.9      6            BD
    R3R             14:45  3.0      6
    F/N             15:08  2.75     6            F/N
    F/N             15:16  2.75     6            F/N
    Assess List     15:19  3.1      6            LF
    R3R             15:29  3.1      6
    F/N             17:22  2.35     6            F/N
                                                 - GIs
                                                 beaming

That's it.

Meter TA check = 1.95





------------------------------------------------------------------------


Instructions and comments:



                                        _________________
                                        Director of Processing


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 917

TIME                                                TA

~This is the session.~

13:12                                               3.75

R-factor

Delete items run.

Add to list.

13:16                                               3.7

Feeling of:
Suppressing myself

                                                    3.7 }
                                                        } BD
13:17                                               3.4 }

Checked -- agree

13:18                                               3.4

R3R

~1.~ Right.

~2.~ 18th May '69

~3.~

~4.~ Day and a bit.

~5.~

~6.~ 13:21                                          3.35

See myself getting a flunk for
session.

~7.~

~9.~ The C/S's interpretation of what
had happened is not correct mainly
because I didn't make a clear state-
ment of it on the Summary Form
I am faced with going thru HCOBs
three times again--as I fail to get
this rectified. I'm told I'll have to
write the Commodore that would
take a day or so--the "Well, you'll
have to write to the Commodore,"
etc. reaction was to kick, bite,
scratch till I get it put right. But
when I restrained myself the mass
built up. I watched it happen. Recog-
nize as an old symptom. I couldn't
stop the mass pushing me down.

13:33                                               3.1

By next morning I was just being
other-determined. All zest gone.

~D.~ 13:36                                     2.75 BD

Even the realization that I was doing
this to myself didn't help.

TIME                                                TA

~AB.~

~C.~

~D.~ Just that.

~E/S?~ More solid.

~Earlier?~

~1.~ There's a light somatic across
back of my neck.

13:37                                               3.0

Ah, yes.

~2.~ 1st Nov. 1968

~3.~

~4.~ half an hour.

~5.~

~6.~ Groups of people standing in it--
party.

~7.~

13:40                                               3.25

I find myself unable to reach into any
of these groups so can't participate.
Attach myself to fringe of one group.
I envy one chap talking so ably and
freely.

13:41                                               3.5

I'm fed up with myself being that
way--as if there's a barrier between
me and the conversation--adversely
different from the rest. I feel if I
force myself into limelight I'll make
some sort of fool of myself. So I
stand around trying to look cheerful

13:44                                               3.6

and interested and forcing myself to
say something now and again--but
it's a strain to do so. I'm impatient
with myself for feeling this way. I
just resign myself to being quiet and
being there.

13:46                                               3.7

~9.~ I was conscious that I was doing
this.

13:47                                           3.4 BD

No one else doing this to me.

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ When one chap arrived--started

                918  BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

talking in a loud voice, completely
at home. He talked with greatest
assurance. Seemed to overwhelm
everyone.

13:49                                               3.7

Closed me up inside. I couldn't snap
out of it for the rest of the party.

~D.~ 13:50                                      3.5 BD

I was totally the effect of the other
people at the party. I couldn't fight
up to being cause. I stopped trying.
Something I was doing to myself--
not permitting me to be myself.

~E/S?~ More mass.

~Earlier?~

~1.~ 13:52 Yes.                                     3.3

~2.~ 8th March, 1922.

~3.~

~4.~ Off and on for years.

~5.~

~6.~ Myself sitting down with some-
thing.

13:55                                               3.5

I'm sitting on veranda quite un-
believing that my father can be dead.
It's just not real; must be some
mistake. Not possible he's dead.
Must be someone somewhere that
can do something about it. I sit in a
daze of unreality. How can he be?
What is death?

13:57                                               3.65

It's just too bad to have happened. I
can't have a father one moment and
not the next. He'd just come back,
everything would be okay.

14:00                                               3.75

I'm not just going to accept that he's
dead. What is death? It's just a word
people use and resign themselves to.
Dad's just gone away. One day he'll
come back or we'll find him. Normal
life. Let's do something about that.

14:04                                           3.3 BD

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ Sense of unbelieving unreality--
there must be something here that I can
work out. Being in presence of something
else bigger than myself. Others
should get in and sort it out.

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~

~D.~ Can't remember who told me of my
father's death. Just not knowing.
Everything was unreal.

14:07                                               3.55

Death unreal so was life--not going
to accept his loss. He's around some-
where. And for years I kept dream-
ing he'd come back each time dream
different. I'd wake and he wasn't
there.

14:09                                               3.7

~E/S?~ More solid.

~Earlier similar.~

~1.~ 14:10                                          3.4

All right.

~2.~ 1920, 4th April

~3.~

~4.~ 8 minutes.

~5.~

~6.~ I wake up and see my mother
very angry with father.

14:12                                               3.5

~7.~ My mother angry. I wake up to
see this. I suppress my awareness
from my mother. Never, never must
know that I'm witnessing this severe
scene.

14:14                                               3.7

Not daring to move. I breathe
regularly. Eyes closed, listening.

~9.~ Somatic across neck a bit.

14:15                                           3.3 BD

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ Stronger than that
Was fear of being found out --
vitalness of suppressing myself, of

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 919

TIME                                                TA

being discovered, like a peeping
Tom.

14:18                                               3.6

14:19                                           3.3 BD

~E/S?~ More massy.

~1.~ All right.

~2.~ 16th Jan, 1913

~3.~

~4.~ 1 second

~5.~

~6.~ My body lying on ground below

14:21                                               3.35

I decide I must keep myself out of
trouble. Make myself insignificant
keep in background, keep out by not
getting into it. Make myself small,
insignificant, so make easier to stay
out of way, out of trouble.

14:23                                               3.65

I feel I still hurt in stomach from
bullet wound.

~9.~                                                BD

14:23                                               3.4

Up there telling myself what a clod I
was.

14:25                                               3.1

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ Loud bang. Shock. I'm leaving
the body, sort of "Here you are again;
why don't you keep out of trouble?"
Make myself small next time! For
Pete's sake keep out of trouble.

14:27                                               3.5

Don't need to get into trouble

                                                    BD

~D.~ 14:28                                          2.85

The decision to suppress myself from
any possibility of getting into
trouble. Result of accumulation of
pains and death. Just keep out.

14:29                                               3.0

~E/S?~ It has erased.

TIME                                                TA

The great scheme was to be small, to
keep out of trouble.

14:30                                          2.95 F/N

~Earlier?~ No

Needle F/N   GIs

14:36                                               2.9

"Yeah, that's the end of that chain."

(Back to list and another item)

"The stiffness in the back of neck is
the composite of all these chains
we're running.

Comment on head                                     BD

quiver caused blow down not an item
tho--                                               3.2

14:41                                               2.9

A head-quivering feeling.

R3R

14:45                                               3.0

~1.~ OK.

~2.~ 4 Jan, 1960.

~3.~

~4.~ Just over three years.

~5.~

~6.~ 14:47                                          3.2

I see myself in office of new general
manager.

~7.~ I reported to this chap Jan, 1960
and 1961. Moment I reported I felt
disagreement with him, couldn't
understand how he got to be general
manager. He automatically took a
different view to mine. Disagree-
ments--or my accepting his point of
view.

14:53                                               3.65

I did things as I wanted to do them.

~8.~ I'm trying to convince him that
this chap--accountant I've got, is
making a mess. But he says he was
good at income tax.

15:05                                               3.15

Later the same day I try to convince
director. I'll just go on with this
wrongness going on.

                920 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ _Rushing_blood_to_top_of_head_.
How am I going to handle? I'm against
brick wall. No cooperation. Driving me
up the wall. I couldn't accept defeat.
This head quiver is
from just that. Big grin.                         BD

15:08                                          2.75 F/N

~1. Earlier?~

Yes.

~2.~ 2 quadrillion years.

~3.~

~4.~ Seven days.

~5.~

~6.~ This devil figure standing in front
of me.

~7.~ 15:10                                          3.0

~8.~ Solid bar hitting me in back of
head -- neck -- rubber stamping.
Blunting me to convert others to my
way. I must convert others into my
way then bang. Knocks me uncon-
scious. I must convert others.
Laughing devil. "That will get you
into all the trouble in the world" --
hated the bastard.

15:13                                               3.2 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    2.6 }

~9.~ I've kept coming up with disbelief.
That is the start of it all.
That's the simplicity. Why others can't
see it as me. This brick wall
thing--I didn't know what to do. Rage,
temper. Blood into head.

15:16                 F/N                           2.75

[!!!]

~Earlier?~ No, that's the chain, to
convert others to my way.                           GIs.

Back to list.

Assessed to feeling of: being scared
of making a fool of myself. Pc:
"The ridge on back of neck is picking
up mass now.

                                                    LF

15:29                                               3.1

TIME                                                TA

~1.~ Ok.

~2.~ 15 Dec., 1959

~3.~

~4.~ About 30 seconds.

~5.~

~6.~ All the employees gathered
together in the open square. GM
standing up to address.

~7.~

~8.~ As he was about to address them,
fear in stomach in that moment that
it was impossible to do.

15:33                                               3.25

~9.~ At that time impossible.

15:34                                           3.1 BD

I was eventually there and did it.

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ It's in the stomach. With fear--
the feeling I shouldn't be that way.

                                                    BD

~D.~ 15:35                                          3.3 }
                                                        }
                                                    3.1 }

A sure way of supp. myself.

~E/S?~ Solid.

~Earl?~

~1.~ 15:37                                          2.85

OK.

~2.~ 10th Dec., 1930.

~3.~

~4.~ About 4 minutes.

~5.~

~6.~ A swimming bath, and a big
towel.

15:39                                               3.25

~7.~ I'm swimming in a handicap race.

(Yawn)

I feel this race is for fear of exposure,
fear out of proportion till I die.

~9.~ Ridge 15:41                                    3.6 }
                                                        } BD
                                                   3.25 }

Neck mass.

~AB.~

~C.~ Starts in guts; too much
exposure for everyone to see.
Can't see

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 921

TIME                                                TA

how frightened I am. Tembling all
over.

15:44                                               3.4

~D.~ Mass around head, spine, neck.

~E/S?~ Solid

~EarlO~

~1.~ 15?45                                          3.3

15:47                                               3.6

15:49                                               3.75

15:52                                               3.85

Yes                                                 BD

15:56                                               3.5

~D.~ Mass around head, spine, neck.

~E/S?~ Solid

~Earl?~

~1.~ 15:45                                          3.3

15:47                                               3.6

15:49                                               3.75

15:52                                               3.85 }
Yes                                               BD     }
15:56                                                3.5 }


~2.~ 709 4 of Jan.

~3.~

~4.~ 22 min.

~6.~ Several people standing laughing.

~7.~

~8.~ I'm the guest. This family con-
sists of several sisters and brothers.
This family decided I must have sex
with one of the girls, big fat, least
desirable. They want to stand
around bed and watch. I'll never get
an erection with her. She undresses;
mountains of flesh. Repugnant.
They think I'm shy. She's on bed--
my penis is flat. They push me on to
her. Their laughter gets harsh as
they notice I'm not enjoying it--no
erection. Jeering at me.

16:01                                               3.7

"Not a man," they say, "still a child
in man's body." They rush me out
into the street, throw clothes after
me.

TIME                                                TA

~9.~ 16:03                                          3.5 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.0 }

Mass on head, neck somatic.

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ OK.

~D.~ OK.

Well, I'm bored with the whole thing
now. Still got mass on neck somatic.

~E/S?~ Solid.

~Earl?~

~1.~ All right.

~2.~ 16:05                                          3.4

2,000 years ago.

~3.~

~4.~ 2 days.

~5.~

~6.~ 6 servants in front of me--three
men, three women. Caught having
orgy in palace. I've got to sentence
them. I'm angry.

~7.~ I sentence men to have penises
cut off. Sentence women to have
breasts cut off.
Two men fall, one stands erect.

16:09                                               3.75

Later I'm told the sentence is going to
be administered. I want to watch
it.
Idea. Experiment. Which is the more
intense, ecstasy or pain?
Down in dungeon.

16:11                                               3.6

Talk to chief torturer. Tell him men
left, women right. I sit between.
They're all naked. I ordered one girl to
make love to one man. I command
they do it more willingly. He gets an
erection. She lays down. He starts to
insert his penis. Chief torturer reaches
down and cuts off his penis. He screams.
She screams. Man pulled away.
Girl out of her head. Both taken away.
Failure.

                922 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

16:15                                               3.7

I think up new way. Guards go get
fierce dogs. Tie piece of meat to next
fellow's penis and testicles. Dog
released, biting at meat and testicles
and penis. One girl faints. Chap is
dragged away. Dog controlled.
Same to other fellow. Girl screams
for third guy. Guards holding.

16:18                                               3.5

Give dog chain to girl. "You keep him
off him." She's just holding it. I
enjoy this, knowing dog will win. But
there's something about this fellow;
be isn't cringing. Suddenly I see
what I'm doing. I jump up and I
scream "Stop," but dog gets him.
Chap goes down but doesn't scream.
I lose my bead. I scratch girl, claw
her breasts.

16:22                                               3.25

Fight her. I've made a fool of myself.
I've lost control completely. I rush
upstairs to my room. All I can see is
that third chap's face, steadfast,
brave.
Guards talking, all over palace. I wish
I could turn clock back. Should
not have gone down.

16:24                                               3.4 }
                                                        } BD
                                                    3.0 }

~9.~ Mass moving around.

~AB.~ OK.

~C.~ 16:25                                          3.25

16:26
                                                    3.4 }
                                                        } BD
                                                   3.15 }

~D.~ Justifying something that I was
doing, what had happened to me. My
being out of control, unable to stop
third man from same fate. Now these
others had seen me completely out
of control.

~E/S?~ More solid. More mass.

~Earl?~

TIME                                                TA

~1.~ OK                                             3.1 }
                                                        } BD
16:28                                              2.85 }

~2.~ 567,468 years ago.

~3.~

~4.~ 10 minutes.

~5.~

~6.~ 16:30                                          3.1

Cave -- high
platform

~7.~ Girl comes out of cave and smiles
at me. A long white robe, shows
breasts. I watch her walk towards
me, breasts moving. I have contrap-
tion I'm going to take her for a ride,
in glass rectangle. Entrance sliding
door.

16:33                                               3.4

I'm going to have her when I get her
into contraption willing or not. Help
her in feel her body close to mine.
She senses something halfway in.
She looks at me, sees --

16:35                                               3.6

She tries to leap out. I push her in.
Grabs my robe, we fall inside. I have
an erection. The contraption moves.
I try to jump in, I slip. Door catches
my penis. I'm held outside only by
my penis and contraption moving
down valley. My body is tearing
away from penis.

16:37                                               3.15

I fall away, leaving the body. As I
leave the body I say "what a fool
contraption." Crashes into mountain
at end of valley. Explodes. Now I've
got to confront her.

16:40                                               3.4

(Head rolling. Breathing. Pause.)

Somewhere there is a tribunal and
this is all exposed.

16:42                                               3.25

I get a suspended sentence. "Do not
ever make a fool of yourself again.

                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 923

TIME                                                TA

Never expose yourself again."

16:43                                               3.3 }
                                                  BD    }
                                                   2.75 }

~9.~ Soreness in neck.

16:45                                               2.85

~AB.~

~C.~ 11:00 morning, 6th of June. Sun
shining. My desire for this girl
overwhelms me.

16:47                                               3.3

16:48                                               3.5

~D.~ Tribunal is just me confronting
myself. "Never make a fool of your-
self again. Never expose your fellow
creature."

16:50                                               3.4
                                                       BD
                                                    3.0

~E/S?~ Solid.

~Earl?~

(Pause, looking)

~1.~ No, I think the last one was the
one--no earlier.                                    BD

                                                    3.25 }
                                                         }
Back                                                 3.0 }

16:53

~AB.~

~C.~

There is a real tribunal and I'm
exposed to the comments of people.

16:55                                               3.4

They speak quite contemptuously.
They're so dignified. Like a person
with no control.

16:57                                               3.5

~D.~ Made me feel very small, con-
temptible. In silence I'm allowed to
walk out alone. Warning, "don't ever
make a fool of yourself again."                     BD

                                                    3.5 }
                                                        }
16:59                                               3.0 }

~E/S?~

Still mass but erasing.

17:00                                               2.75

~AB.~ OK.

TIME                                                TA

~C.~ 17:01                                          3.1

17:02                                               3.3 }
                                                        } BD
17:03                                               2.7 }

~D.~ Must be another one. This one is
getting more solid. Stiff in neck.

~E/S?~ -- Solid.

~Earlier?~

17:04                                               2.6

~1.~ 17:05                                          3.2

~2. 196,237,419 years.

~3.~ 17:06                                          3.1

~4.~ Five hours.

~5.~ 17:08                                          3.3

~6.~ I'm drinking with many. I'm burs-
ting with my powers with women,
my virility.

17:10                                               3.5

Prove who can have sexual inter-
course with three women the quick-
est. Judge is present.

17:11                                               3.6

One who loses will be given to the
women to do what they like. I don't
like that. I boldly accept.

17:12                                               3.65

I lose contest, find myself tied up
naked. Sitting legs apart. Just
women--start torturing me, twis-
ting head in agony. All I can move is
my head.

17:14                                               3.7

Dozen different tortures one after
the other. I pass out with pain.
Throw wine in my face, "teach you to
make fools of us." They castrate me,
trembling mass of hulk.

~9.~ 17:16                                          3.75 }
                                                         } BD
                                                     3.0 }

Mass -- neck.

~AB.~ All right.

~C.~ I can't see the actual contest.

17:17                                               2.9

Just back in there with these
women. They squeeze one testicle

                924 BOOK THREE

TIME                                                TA

                                              Meter 1.95

till I scream and plead for mercy.

17:19                                               3.4
                                                       BD
17:20                                               3.0

Eventually I leave the body.

~D.~ Same realization of making a fool
of myself at leaving the body. It's
not worth it.                                       BD }
                                                       }
~E/S?~ Erasing.                                     BD }
                                                       }
If not already erased.                              BD }

It's gone.

VGIs 17:22                                          2.35

                F/N INDICATED                       F/N

~That's it.~          26.4

TIME                                                TA


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 925

Dianetic List
From Health Form 27/4/69
Run 15/5/69 C/S

Agonizing pain                               x     x     x     x     x

Tiredness                                    x     x     x    tick   x

Impatience                                   sF    x     x     x     x

Tension                                      tick  x     x     x     x

Frustration poor vision                      x     sF    x     x     x

Discomfort                                   x     x     x     x     x

Embarrassment                                x     x     x     x     x

Lack of Control                              x     x     tick  x     x

                    Added on 17/5/69 from Pc's feelings.

Chronic Anxiety                              sF    x     tick  x     x

Intensity to win                             x     x     x     sF    x

Wanting to withdraw                          x     x     x     x     x

Listing BD - Run 17/5/69

Ridge across back of neck                    x     sF    x     x     F

Self-consciousness                           x     x     x     x     sF

Feeling of injustice                         x     tick  x     sF    x

Feeling of mass when
    injustice occurs                         sF    sF    tick  x     sF

Head quiver, hopelessness
    Pc expanded to                           x     x     x     x     x

Feeling stupid                               x     x     x     x     x

Hopelessness at not being able
    to control    Run 16/5/69                LFBD  x     x     x

Frustration at not being able
    to control                               x     x     s     F     sF

Inferiority at not being able
    to control   Run 16/5/69                 sF    x     f   ----------

Head quiver

Hopelessness at the presence of
    the head quiver.                         tick  sF    x     sF    sF

Feeling of hopelessness                      x     x     x     x     x


                926 BOOK THREE


                EXAMINER'S FORM

After session        :v             Qual Div: Flag
Volunteered          :              Date:  21/5/69
Medical              :              Time:  17:30
Pc or Pre-OT name    :BG
Last grade attained  :OT I
Grade, Course or Action Being Attested:

Pc's statement (write down exactly what pc says):
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I shifted an awful lot of mass and feel
much lighter.



------------------------------------------------------------------------
TA position and any BD: 3.0   Pc indicators: Good

State of needle: F/N

F/N indicated to pc: Yes

                                        _________________
                                        Signature of Examiner


ROUTE THIS FORM INTO THE FOLDER. WHEN ILLNES REPORTED
MAKE THIS OUT WITH A CARBON UNDER IT AND ROUTE ORIG. TO
THE FOLDER AND CARBON TO MEDICAL OFFICER.
RUSH ROUTE ANY LATER REPORT OR SICK REPORT TO FOLDER
TO PREVENT C/S ERROR.


                PERSONALLY C/SED SESSIONS 927



                SUMMARY REPORT

Pc or Pre-OT:BG            Date 21/5/69
Process run :R3R           TA 26.4 Time 4 + 10
                           Auditor TK


Goals and gains:
Add to list, Assess/Run R3R
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aspects and gains:

1. How did pc do in relation to what was run.
Beautifully
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Effectiveness of process.
Standard, Excellent
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Any free needles.
Yes, four.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. General needle behavior.
Clean
------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Did TA go below 2.0 (how low).       Did it come up.
No                                             v
------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Did TA go high.                        Did it come down.
No                                                v
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. General TA range.
2.75 to 3.5
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Emotional tone of the pc and whether this improved.
Very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Any misemotion.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Preclear appearance.
Beaming
------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Any change in skin tone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. Did color of eyes change.
      Get brighter                    Get dull
             Yes                        No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Any comm lags.
Only while looking
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Any cognitions.
Yes!
------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Any pains turn on        blown
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Any sensations turn on        blown
Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Any difficulties.
No
------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Did you complete C/S instructions.
Yes.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. Was pc happy at session end.
Very happy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. TA  at session end        Needle at session end
2.35                                        F/N
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ETHICS REPORT:
None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUGGEST:
C/S. Add to list/Assess/Stnd. R3R. Beautiful PC!!!
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                CHAPTER 11

                KEEPING DIANETICS
                WORKING

    The first stepping stone on the road to Clear and OT was and is
Dianetics. There have been many breakthroughs in Dianetics over the
years, and one in particular is that chains, the mental image pictures
that a being has, are united and held together by somatics: aches, pains
and misemotions.

It is simply the pictures which an individual has, united by somatics
which bring about the chain which is bothering him. And if you go down
the somatic chain it is very rapid. There will be two, three, four, five
incidents and suddenly you're right there at basic, which is quickly
erased.

There are no variables in standard Dianetics today. There is probably an
infinity of things you can do wrong, but there is a very easily followed
track through the middle of the morass that brings one through to the
other side. That is Standard Dianetics.

The advent of Standard Dianetics means a great deal. In the first place,
it means that when somebody gets his

                932 BOOK THREE

certificate he can audit. There are two qualifications to a Dianetics
certificate: (1) the person has had case gains on Dianetics and (2) he
has been able to administer Dianetics so as to give case gains with it.
And that is what a Dianetic auditor is. It is not somebody who has been
through the checksheets a large number of times, or somebody who knows
the director of certifications and awards. And that is the tradition
which we are beginning.

    There are at this stage three types of Dianetic auditors. There is
the Hubbard Dianetic auditor from way back. The certificate is still
valid.

    The next grade of auditor is the Hubbard Dianetic Counselor. An HDC
has received gains, can get gains and is a fully trained auditor. But he
has not been trained to teach a course.

    The Hubbard Dianetics Graduate is always and uniformly trained in an
official Scientology church. He is trained to be an auditor but he also
has to be fully trained as a course supervisor. And a Hubbard Dianetic
Graduate is thoroughly qualified to teach a course in Dianetics.

    When you make an HDG, first you make sure that he's a good auditor.
Then you make a good course supervisor out of him and then he can go out
and make more auditors. That happens to be what the planet needs.

    Now an HDG can go out to a gung ho group* or a Dianetic Counseling
Group. Dianetics is not a single man hanging out a shingle. In a
Dianetic Counseling Group, an HDG will be able to train auditors and an
HDC will be able to audit preclears. An HDC will do great auditing
somebody, but sooner or later he'll realize that a Dianetic Counseling
Group is necessary to push it along.

    There are about three billion sick human beings out there. I have
been all over the world and studied twenty-one primitive cultures,
including the American and the English. And in all that time I have
never really found anybody who was well. People keep falling on their
heads. They spend a childhood which is happy amongst intervals of
whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever. They go to school between

                KEEPING DIANETICS WORKING 933

pink eye, belly aches and just plain malingeringitis. And then they go
do work.

    What's most amazing is to read the letters of humanoids,
particularly in the Bible belt of Corn Belt of the United States: "Dear
Bessie Ann, George isn't feeling well today. Aunt Mabel was just
operated on for gallstones. Benny has taken up medicine. I don't feel
very well today. I keep getting these spells. Hoping you are the same."

    When somebody is this fixated upon his body, he is not likely to be
very interested in his spirit. So three billion sick human beings are
going to take an awful lot of auditors. And we never before figured out
how to make that many auditors.

    If you really pushed it, a Hubbard Dianetic Counselor could probably
be made in ten days or two weeks. People can afford that much time.
Those few that don't make it in that length of time, keep them over a
while. They'll eventually make it. And you'll make auditors. And if we
consistently train the Hubbard Dianetic Graduates who teach the course
in Scientology churches and we keep the quality of that course up, then
we're not going to muddy up the environment with a bunch of unsolved
cases. And if Dianetic auditing is done in a counseling group, how can
you miss?

    Now because there's a Scientology auditor sitting in this Dianetic
Counseling Group, Scientology won't drop out. Dianetics is miraculous,
so you don't have to do very much sales work.

    As a result of this Dianetic program, individuals will be made into
well, happy human beings, and from that point they'll take off into
their grades and OT sections.

    You have the technology, you have the administrative know-how, you
have churches out there to back you up. If we cooperate with the medical
doctor properly I'm sure he'll welcome us with open arms.

    You've got the technology to be an HDG. All you have to do is make
very sure before you put that certificate in someone's hand that you are
very satisfied that he himself has had case gains from Dianetics and
that he has brought

                934 BOOK THREE

about good case gains and can be counted on to do so in his preclears.
And that when someone teaches a course, he knows that course well enough
so that he doesn't give opinions.

    If the supervisor is trained only slightly on what bulletin what was
in, sooner or later the course will go to pieces, because the student's
confidence in the course supervisor evaporates. He thinks that the
supervisor is giving him opinions or new technology, and he gets the
idea there must be some hidden data line. But if his course supervisor
says to him, "You'll find the answer to that in technical bulletin of 27
May, about the third paragraph," the student will say, "This man knows
his business. This is the straight dope." And he takes it with
confidence and goes out and gets results.

    So a course supervisor is basically someone who in addition to his
other duties can refer the person to the exact bulletin to get his
information, and never tells him another thing.

    Therefore the course supervisor is quite superior in his knowledge
of the subject to a person who is simply auditing. As long as you turn
out good course supervisors that can hit their data off one-two-three,
they know exactly what it is about. When those fellows go out and teach
auditors to audit, you know there will be results.

    A Dianetic Counseling Group turns resistive cases over to a
Scientology auditor. If your Dianetic Counseling Group does not have a
Scientology auditor, then that preclear should be sent to the
Qualifications Division of the nearest Scientology church to be handled.

    About the highest level Scientology auditor that a Dianetic
Counseling Group could count upon is a Class IV who is going to handle a
certain number of these cases. Better still get a Saint Hill graduate, a
Class VIII.

    We don't expect a Dianetic auditor to be able to do one hundred
percent of these cases. It has to be backed up with Scientology. A
Dianetic auditor can get his job done. We back him up with a Class IV
who can solve those he can't solve; and in turn back him up with a Class
VIII who can solve the cases the Class IV can't solve.

                KEEPING DIANETICS WORKING 935

    In an area where you have good Dianetic gains, you will see people
are very cheerful, industrious and happy. You will see some excitement
build up gradually on this, and if the excitement happens in the church
it will start happening in the area. And if it happens in the area, it
will happen in the world.

    The only thing we have been opposed by all these years is Russian
mental technology, taught in every university there is. It's not a
healing technology. Psychology and psychiatry are control technologies.
That's why the communistically-minded or police state type individual
sides at once with psychology and psychiatry. He is counting on those
fellows to control the population of which he is afraid. And these
fellows have fallen down on the job.

    There has never been a time when a psychiatrist operating with that
technology has ever resolved anything. In the whole world there is not
one case made well by psychiatry or psychology. Psychoanalysis has a
slightly better record. And occasionally some person has learned to live
with his illness.

    Nobody thinks there is or could be a spiritual healing technology
because they have been lied to. They have been told that psychology and
psychiatry are supposed to take care of this; the public at large thinks
that means they're supposed to heal things. And they're not. They're
just trying to keep somebody quiet. It's in all their textbooks. The
only reason a person is given electric shock is to keep him quiet.

    We're not interested in control. We're perforce more interested in
helping people. But if you don't have a certain amount of ethics around,
people get knocked about by somebody who is enturbulating the area,
wrecking cases, evaluating for people, chopping them up. Send for the
ethics officer, then you'll find out you can make some progress. Control
itself can get out of hand very easily. You can over-control an area.
But that's only when control itself goes adrift and isn't following its
technology. You must not let control be used suppressively, but you'll
find you will have to use some of it just to get your job done.

    A fellow who is going to give good sessions has a good grip on his
material. And a fellow who doesn't have a good

                936 BOOK THREE

grip on his material is not going to give good sessions. A fellow knows
and can do Dianetics as well as he himself has been through the
materials and as long as he himself is getting case gains.

    In that any Dianetics course, starting out, has only its course
supervisor trained, the problems of what is used for case supervision
and cramming supervisor in qual will arise.

    Here more than any other points, alteration can enter.

    Altering, doing something else, is a sufficiently serious problem to
destroy a course and all the benefits of Dianetics in a whole area.

    Early on, during the development of the Standard Dianetics course,
we were suddenly getting case failures. These were traced by case
supervision to wild variations from Standard Dianetic procedure. These
variations were traced to an examiner who during student checkouts was
giving "advice." As soon as this was handled, case gains immediately
resumed.

    What has happened here in Standard Dianetics is that the exact
actions that produce results on all cases have been isolated and used as
THE procedure.

    The procedure is a thin narrow walkway through a huge field of
potential alterations.

    THERE ARE NO DIFFERENT CASES.

    Built in to the Standard Dianetics procedure are the remedies.

    For instance, early Dianetics was plagued by several problems:

    1. Lack of visio--an inability to see pictures. This was solved by
getting the date and duration.

    2. Perception shut-off. Not required in total now to produce
results. Sonic, ability to hear the sound in pictures, is not needed at
all. Impression is sufficient.

    3. Somatic shut-off. Not now required to be solved but its source
(drugs and alcohol) have been discovered.

    4. Rough session. Solved by TRs.

    5. Lack of auditor judgment in diagnosis. Solved by the E-meter.

    In these years of research I have been able to wrap up these and
other things.

                KEEPING DIANETICS WORKING 937

    There have been more cases run on Dianetics than could easily be
counted. So the research data is very broad. This is no new subject. It
has been close to thirty-nine years under research.

    Thus what you are told on the Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course is
the ~essence~ of all this work and experience. There are ~no~ unsolved
problems, there is only varied application where there should not be.

    The whole object of the course is to train people to get good
RESULTS, and train people to give a course that results in GOOD
AUDITORS. That's the whole thing.

    We could also teach over 50,000,000 words about things that ~don't~
get results or train auditors.

    The essence of a brilliant subject is a simple subject.

    Therefore anything that varies the data of a Standard Dianetics
course can send it out into unworkability.

    I've seen "auditors" also use "peyote" (a drug), CO2 and drugs "to
help auditing." I've seen many different meter types used. I've looked
over a thousand different ways to run a session. And I've seen all these
things fail.

    The four points of greatest potential failure are:

    1. A course supervisor who interprets data and alters it in order to
satisfy some student's offbeat quest.

    2. An examiner who throws curves into data by means of invalidating
the right data.

    3. A case supervisor who does not simply and only put the auditor
back onto the main line and who seeks to "solve" cases by altering data.

    4. An auditor who, not knowing his data in the first place, alters
the data and, because in an altered form he fails, starts off on a
wilder alteration of data and fails harder.

    Under supervisor comes the course and cramming supervisor both.

    So you see, that to get real Standard Dianetics results going in an
area you have to be ~very~ alert to hold the exact data line as
contained in the technical bulletins, tapes and books.

    Where you begin to find case failures, look to 1 to 4 above and to
student failure to just simply study and drill.

                938 BOOK THREE

    For the first time you have an exact subject in the field of the
"humanities." These "humanities" for all Man's history have been a mass
of superstition, bad logic, propaganda, authority and brutality. An
~exact~ humanity is so new that it has a bit of a hard time. All the old
errors and prejudices start to "blow off" when truth enters in.

    Just be sure you don't lose the subject with the confusion.

    Cope, make do, hold the line and you'll have a successful Dianetic
area. It's worth working toward, worth achieving.

    You have only one big stable datum.

    IF IT ISN'T WORKING IT IS BEING VARIED.

    To get it working again, find who and what is varying it, and get
back on the main line.

    The most fundamental errors a Dianetic Counseling Group could make
would be to use other than straight, Standard Dianetics, and be "not
quite with Hubbard" or to call itself something else than Dianetics.

    SUCH A GROUP WOULD NOT HAVE PEOPLE LONG.

    In all the years of Dianetics and Scientology, every group or
activity that has given out "We don't quite agree with Hubbard but . .
." or have called themselves psychology etc., have been short-lived. The
public simply stays away in droves! Such groups get into trouble
financially, dwindle then die.

    There have been dozens, slightly off or wholly defiant, and it has
happened time and time again. They have all gone. Not because I have
done anything about them, but they were doomed by the public which at
the first whiff of alter-is or non-Hubbard avoids them utterly.

    I don't know of any group which has survived this.

    So be very sure in your Dianetic counselling group to stay on line
and standard, and acknowledge fully the source of Dianetics, L. Ron
Hubbard. Never make these fundamental errors or permit them to be made
in your group. And maintain always your official regular connection with
mainline Dianetics and Scientology.

    These are cold hard facts based on twenty four years of experience
with groups.

                KEEPING DIANETICS WORKING 939

    I WANT YOU TO PROSPER.

    The following points are laid out to better define "The Dianetic
Counseling Group Program."

    1. Group commitment.

    It is made a point of emphasis to a church and mission setting up a
Dianetic Counseling Group that "set-up" does not imply any financial or
personnel commitment or subsequent control. A group leader is a leader
in his own right and in turn he respects the rights of a church or
mission.

    2. Scientology Church and Mission Dianetic services.

    Church and mission Dianetic services remain open and are to
~continue~. The Dianetic Counseling Group program is there to boost
Dianetics, not close any services in churches or missions.

    3. Dianetic Counseling Group material supplies.

    Dianetic Counseling Groups or field auditors may not remimeo any
materials but must purchase these materials from a church or mission.
With this policy, a mission is granted the right to sell Dianetic
materials to Dianetic Counseling Groups. Dianetic Counseling Groups may
receive membership discounts only, on material purchases.

    4. Group chains.

    Dianetic Counseling Groups may not form chains. The rule applies to
any Scientology group. The formation of mission chains is already
covered in policy.

    5. Tithes.

    A Dianetic Counseling Group does not pay 10 percent of its income to
Mission Worldwide.* It may, however, pay a tithe IF IT SO DESIRES. In
this case the Dianetic Counseling Group is granted the right to remimeo
like missions and may receive new technical bulletins from Worldwide.
Any materials a Dianetic Counseling Group (paying 10 percents) remimeos
are for its OWN USE SOLELY and not for sale.

    The isolated practitioner who hung out his shingle, and sought to
work all alone would have to be a "one-man band."

    Let us list the basic essential "hats" he would have to wear.

    Reception

    Registrar

    Cashier

                940 BOOK THREE

    Ethics Officer

    Examiner

    Case Supervisor

    Auditor

    Review Auditor

    Public Relations Officer

    If successful he would spend about five hours a day auditing, two
hours eating and eight hours sleeping. This leaves nine hours in which
to do the remaining "hats."

    Of necessity one or more would be neglected. On that point he would
tend to cave in as a "one-man band."

    It takes about two administrative personnel to keep a technical
personnel going.

    Even a group of auditors, trying to make lots of money, usually try
to do nothing but audit. It is not that they have case failures. It is
that they fail to wear the essential hats.

    The best auditing results are obtained from teamwork.

    A review auditor has to be a trained Scientologist. Lack of one
means a roughed up pc has to be sent to the nearest Scientology church.

    But there is no reason one cannot work as part of a group, even if
the others are only part-timers.

    The best solution to all this is to form a Dianetic Counseling Group
and get the essential posts held. Then the advances and gains the group
makes will be advances that are stable.

    This group would of course have to have a liaison with a competent
medical doctor or clinic.

    In the United States especially, the Counselors would have to be
ministers.

    A Dianetic auditor would be able to audit all day even if the whole
group only worked evenings.

    Let's face it. The auditor auditing alone will have case failures.
He won't have time to pick them up. He won't be able to get them to
Qual. After a while he will have losses and some failed cases that muddy
up his neighborhood just as other professions get.

    Psychiatry and psychology failed as single practitioners not only
because they had no real technology but because they tried to work
alone. This turned them toward govern-

                KEEPING DIANETICS WORKING 941

ments which then used them only to control populations and there went
whatever technology they might have developed.

    The single practitioner theory in Dianetics failed badly as an early
Dianetics practice. Auditors that made it only attached themselves to
the rich. Others became drifters.

    The answer, we have found out long since, is the group.

    The full hats,* organization and activities and how they interrelate
are available to Dianetics Counseling Groups. It is a wide area of
interesting development all by itself. We had to know organizational
basics to make churches and missions.

    A Dianetic Counseling Group can be enfranchised and made regular and
helped. It will tend to stabilize any practice area. And it will
MINIMIZE case failures.

    The official position of Scientology churches is that they cannot
take responsibility for the results obtained by single practitioners.

    Realism requires that auditing be a group action.

    As such a group can also teach a course, it is not difficult to
recruit able people to help.

    I recall in particular two pathetic cases of singlism. One was a
psychoanalyst who learned how to be an auditor and had to stop using
Dianetics "as it cleaned up all his practice and he had so much trouble
finding 'patients.' " The other was an auditor who found himself with
the whole of a war vessel's crew as pcs and no help in sight.

    In either case forming a Dianetic Counseling Group, getting them
checked out on their "hats" and doing their duties even part time would
have solved all.

    One stick won't burn. One auditor cannot in truth live and work
alone.

    Auditing is a team activity.

    Even if one were a medical doctor or a psychiatrist or psychologist,
it would be best to have on hand or on call the rest of the team or at
least a Dianetic Counseling Group even if one were not an integral part
of it.

    The purpose of auditing is healthy sane people.

    The largest percentage are very grateful and very happy.


                CHAPTER 12

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING

    The third dynamic called education, when engaged upon the
installation of false or imagined premises, can be quite aberrative. The
only right we have to train in Dianetics is that we are training people
in things which they already know. The principles and axioms of
Dianetics and Scientology are considerations which have been agreed upon
and out of which stem this universe and livingness. To train a person in
these trains him only to handle this universe and livingness, therefore
Dianetics and Scientology training are non-aberrative. On the contrary,
thorough training in Dianetics and Scientology is in itself a road to
Clear.

    The very fact that we are training people in things which they
already know brings us to a liability, however. As we train we
restimulate considerations already undertaken in some distant past by
the student. As many of these were assumed to remedy ills and evils he
imagined he had (the restimulation of earlier postulates he has
made--which are the postulates which become the axioms and other

                944 BOOK THREE

materials in Dianetics and Scientology), the student may experience
somatics and confusions which he would not experience in ordinary
scholastic pursuits. Even though this is all for the better, a student
sometimes conceives himself to be under duress, either in student
auditing sessions or from a supervisor, which is not actually present.
There are three ways in which this single liability is overcome.

    First, we train a student thoroughly until the somatic or confusion
is discharged. We do not give up training in something simply because he
finds it confusing or painful. Just as in an auditing session we would
continue to run the process to discharge the somatic which the same
process turned on, so in training we continue to train in the area which
has been restimulated.

    Second, we train vigorously and emphatically so that there will be
no confusion in the student's mind as to the source of the training.

    Third, we consider a student always as an auditor, never as a
preclear. We are not at all interested in the student as a case. We are
interested in the student only as a student auditor. The moment he joins
a course of training, he is considered from that moment on an auditor.
When he is being audited he is, of course, for that time a preclear, but
only by assignment. That he does experience case gains is entirely
incidental to training. It is a maxim of Dianetic and Scientology
supervisors that if a mirror held to a student's lips shows the mist of
breath, the student is in shape to audit a preclear. There is no
compromise with this state of mind. Only a supervisor who intended
actual harm to students would use sympathy for a student concerning his
case. Therefore, our Academies are looked upon as "tough schools."

    The goal of training from the viewpoint of the Director of Training
of the Academy is to bring the student up to a level where he could be
safely entrusted with a Hubbard Guidance Centre preclear. This does not
mean that the student will be so entrusted, but before the Director of
Training and the Examiner and the Board of Review pass the student as
graduated, they have to be sure to their own complete satisfaction that
they would have no qualm en-

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 945

trusting a difficult case to this student. This training goal ensures an
orientation point and standard of excellence. The supervisors, the
Director of Training, the Examiner and the Board of Review know what I
demand of a staff auditor.

    Thoroughness of training is achieved on a gradient scale. It might
frighten a student to look across the training chart and realize what he
must be able to perform, but it should not, if he realizes that he is
climbing a stairway of rather easy steps. The steps are each one of them
easy and their gradient has been planned and experienced carefully.
Therefore, no student is ever passed to the next step of these many
steps before the supervisor is entirely certain that he has mastered the
last step.

    For example, on this gradient scale a student who has thoroughly
learned TR1 ("Dear Alice") will have very little trouble graduating up
to the top of the step, "Tone 40 on an Object," (TR8). While it would be
a mistake to demand in TR1 the excellence necessary to pass "Tone 40 on
an Object," it is nevertheless true that those people who had difficulty
with "Tone 40 on an Object" need a review of TR1.

    Therefore a supervisor is always niggardly with his signature at the
end of each step. To permit a student to climb too swiftly would be to
condemn him to a confusion in some later area of training.

    Training in Dianetics and Scientology contains no thought for
explaining to some student how Dianetics and Scientology fit into some
other frame of reference. By straightly teaching him Dianetics and
Scientology, he will come at last to see that they do not fit into any
other frame of reference but other things fit into their frame of
reference.

    A great many things in Dianetics and Scientology have been said
before. Indeed, everything in Dianetics and Scientology has been
directly and actively postulated by the person being trained at some
point in the past. It would be odd instead if these points then did not
echo or harmonize with other teachings elsewhere. It should be
understood by the student that all things proceed from postulates and
that these postulates go from simplicities to complexities. Therefore,
it would be surprising if Tibetan Lamaism did not

                946 BOOK THREE

contain some of the data of Dianetics and Scientology. By working
entirely with the data which is simplest and earliest, one does the odd
thing with Dianetics and Scientology of taking these new, freshly born
sciences and undercutting any older philosophy. If these are not found
to do this in some field of human experience, then it simply means we
will have to do some more studying. But before we, in the development of
Dianetics and Scientology, do more studying, we should be very sure that
we know enough Dianetics and Scientology to apply them to this
apparently random field.

    Dianetics and Scientology contain several logics which are very
important to training. These are actually the logics of education.
Calling your attention to one of these, it will be seen that the
evaluation of the importance of a datum is often more important than the
datum itself. The datum found in Dianetics and/or Scientology may also
be found in other philosophic works. But hold on for a moment. Did the
other philosophic work give an evaluation of the importance of the datum
or did it give dozens of other data as having equal rank? This point is
mentioned here because it is often overlooked by students. Scientology,
for instance, has some abrupt, sharp things to say about time. Indeed,
time could be said to be the single source of human aberration. The
hunger for a number of incidents to occur simultaneously will in itself
cause people to jam their time tracks. These people, of course, are not
aware of the amount of incidents and as a result jam many adventures
into present time with a consequent disability of differentiation.

    Now it will be seen that in many philosophies time is covered
exhaustively. Time is given many definitions. Time is given chapters and
volumes but nowhere in those chapters and volumes does the philosopher
place his finger squarely upon the two or three important data which are
most important about time. He ranks these data with all of the other
data and so loses them in an ocean of drops of water, all the drops
looking the same as all the other drops. Thus, truth becomes submerged
in an ocean of outflow. Dianetics and Scientology are more parsimonious.
They are

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 947

more incisive, they are more thoroughly evaluated. The two or three data
which concern time ARE the data from which all other data about time
flow.

    Thus, when a student is taught a datum, he is taught it with the
understanding that it will clarify many other later and more complicated
data. Thus, he is taught the simple datum thoroughly. Thus he is taught
fundamentals far more thoroughly than he believes necessary. The work in
the development of Dianetics and Scientology has been the culling of
truth from an ocean of fact and finding that the truth has a tiny group
of data possessed of the overwhelming power of changing all other facts
in this universe and in livingness.

    This is the power of Dianetics and Scientology: that by stressing
single, simple truths, they eliminate oceans of mere data. Thus in
training we concentrate solidly and continually upon these small truths
and we are impatient with excursions until we have established these
fundamental as fundamentals with our students.

    My struggle has not been to Clear people. My struggle has been to
get other people to bring people to Clear and OT. Now that we can do
that, we've got this planet licked. The lid's off. There's no limit on
the following road. We have arrived and it may take some people a long
time to fully realize it. To grasp exactly what this means for this
planet takes quite a bit of looking at.

    Three-quarters of Asia became civilized just because a few guys
hoped that somebody might sooner or later be able to attain the state of
Clear. Now what are you sitting with and what do you suppose is going to
happen from here? That's why it is a little hard to confront this thing.
What we have in Dianetics and Scientology are technologies which are
sufficiently powerful, sufficiently big and overwhelming that they
actually defy description.

    Let's face the reality of this thing. The world confronts several
crises. Man's inhumanity to Man is gaining monuments daily. The time to
bring a chaos under control is well before it has begun. We're slightly
late as it is. Brutally, there is no other religion or group on Earth
that can slow

                948 BOOK THREE

these crises down. Factually there is no other know-how on Earth that
can plumb the problems of Man. So we had better get busy.

    This is no alarmist statement. We are the people who can confront
it. Past civilizations have vanished. The Chaldean, Babylonian,
Egyptian, Chinese, Hindu, Greek, Roman, European--they vanished. And it
was when those societies looked richest that they had already started
down. Like this one.

    They all failed because they had no know-how about Man. They all
dived under from ignorance. Wisdom, real wisdom, could have salvaged any
of them. Wisdom can salvage this one. Wisdom held by the many not just
one wise man.

    We are in a position now to handle our environment smoothly, largely
and well. We have moved into the future for which we have been striving.
We have the tech.

    By tech is meant technology, referring of course, to the application
of the precise scientific drills and processes of Dianetics and
Scientology. Technology means the methods of application of an art or
science as opposed to mere knowledge of the science or art itself. One
could know all about the theory of motor cars and the science of
building them and the art of designing them and still not be able to
build, plan or drive one. The practices of building, planning and
driving a motor car are quite different from the theory, science and art
of motor cars.

    Now tech implies USE. There is a wide gap between mere knowledge and
the application of that knowledge. A skilled auditor knows not only
Dianetics and Scientology but how to apply these technologies to self,
preclears and life. An auditor is one who can apply the technology. Thus
the technologies of Dianetics and Scientology are their actual
application to oneself, a preclear or the situations one encounters in
life.

    It is proven that a person who is technically trained in Dianetics
and Scientology is much more able to handle work and personnel than an
untrained individiual. How can people handle life if they have no expert
knowledge of how to handle life? A housewife who does not have
professional

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 949

level skill in Dianetics and Scientology could not expect to run a
wholly successful family or keep order in her neighborhood and keep her
family well. A factory foreman could not possibly handle his crews with
full effectiveness without training in these skills. The personal
assistant to a corporation executive could not do a fully effective job
without being trained. A corporation president without Dianetic and
Scientology certificates will someday fail.

    If you think that a trained Dianeticist or Scientologist is someone
who only audits then you have a very limited view of Dianetics and
Scientology. The trained Dianeticist or Scientologist is today's cause
point in an embattled world. The factories, the marts of trade, the
homes, the neighborhood, these are the places we want trained people
applying Dianetics and Scientology technology. In that way alone we're
on the busy, still healthy communication lines of the world. If we avoid
the throbbing communication lines of the world we will not win soon
enough as a group. We want companies functioning better to produce a
better civilization. We want races becoming sane and stable assets to
their communities. We want neighborhoods smoothing out.

    So get on the active lines of the world and make your presence felt.
It takes training to do it. It takes the application of our technology.

    I know what the society needs. I know what the society responds to.
I've got the data. You and I can do the job which must be done. We have
the technology and we can do it now. We have been to some degree
searching, all of us. Now we can settle down, learn what is known and
start applying.

    For some years we have had a word "squirrelling." It means altering
Dianetics or Scientology, off beat practices. It is a bad thing. I have
found a way to explain why.

    Scientology (and Dianetics) is a ~workable system~. This does not
mean it is the best possible system or a perfect system. Remember and
use that definition. Scientology is a ~workable system~.

    In fifty thousand years of history on this planet alone, Man never
evolved a workable system. It is doubtful if, in foreseeable history, he
will ever evolve another.

                950 BOOK THREE

    Man is caught in a huge and complex labyrinth. To get out of it
requires that he follow the closely taped path of Dianetics and
Scientology.

    Dianetics and Scientology will take him out of the labyrinth. But
only if he follows the exact markings in the tunnels.

    It has taken me a third of a century in this lifetime to tape this
route out.

    It has been proven that efforts by Man to find different routes came
to nothing. It is also a clear fact that the route called Dianetics and
Scientology ~does~ lead out of the labyrinth. Therefore it is a workable
system, a route that can be travelled.

    What would you think of a guide who, because his party said it was
dark and the road rough and who said another tunnel looked better,
abandoned the route he knew would lead out and led his party to a lost
nowhere in the dark. You'd think he was a pretty wishy-washy guide.

    What would you think of a supervisor who let a student depart from
procedure the supervisor knew worked. You'd think he was a pretty
wishy-washy supervisor.

    What would happen in a labyrinth if the guide let some girl stop in
a pretty canyon and left her there forever to contemplate the rocks?
You'd think he was a pretty heartless guide. You'd expect him to say at
least, "Miss, those rocks may be pretty, but the road out doesn't go
that way."

    All right, how about an auditor who abandons the procedure which
will make his preclear eventually Clear just because the preclear had a
cognition?

    People have following the route mixed up with "the right to have
their own ideas." Anyone is certainly entitled to have opinions and
ideas and cognitions--so long as these do not bar the route out for self
and others.

    Scientology (including Dianetics) is a workable system. It white
tapes the road out of the labyrinth. If there were no white tapes
marking the right tunnels, Man would just go on wandering around and
around the way he has for eons, darting off on wrong roads, going in
circles, ending up in the sticky dark, alone.

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 951

    Scientology and Dianetics, exactly and correctly followed, take the
person up and out of the mess.

    So when you see somebody having a ball getting everyone to take
peyote because it restimulates prenatals, know he is pulling people off
the route. Realize he is squirrelling. He isn't following the route.

    Dianetics and Scientology are new. They ~are~ a road out. There has
not been one. Not all the salesmanship in the world can make a bad route
a proper route. And an awful lot of bad routes are being sold. Their end
product is further slavery, more darkness, more misery.

    This is the only workable system Man has. It has already taken
people toward higher IQs, better lives and all that. No other system
has. So realize that it has no competitor.

    Scientology, which includes Dianetics, is a workable system. The
route is taped. The search is done. Now the route only needs to be
walked.

    So put the feet of students and preclears on that route. Don't let
them off of it no matter how fascinating the side roads seem to them.
And move them on up and out.

    Squirrelling is today destructive of a workable system.

    Don't let your party down. By whatever means, keep them on the
route. And they'll be free. If you don't, they won't.

    Dianetics can be made to fail by alteration of its materials from
its precise workable application.

    It is basically so simple it is hard to conceive that this could
happen.

    There are various ways to make Dianetics difficult. Most of these
come under three headings.

    1. False information as to how it doesn't work by some vested
interest acting as a third party.

    2. Failure to provide or get studied the actual data and technical
bulletins.

    3. Misinstructing which enters a supervisor's or examiner's opinion
or invalidation or alteration of the actual technology.

                952 BOOK THREE

    A person who pays attention to 1 and 3 and who doesn't insist on 2
is courting failure in auditing. Many, many instances exist of each of
these three being done and ~all~ failures one has in auditing can be
traced to one of the three reasons given above.

    The failures aren't because of the pc or the bad intention of the
auditor. Believe that. They came from either not using Dianetics at all
or 1, 2 or 3 above. So don't let yourself get caught in these errors.

    The duty of the supervisor of a course consists of: the
communication of the data of Dianetics and Scientology to the student so
as to achieve acceptance, duplication and application of the technology
in a standard and effective manner.

    There are two Dianetics courses.

    THE HUBBARD STANDARD DIANETICS COURSE.

    On this course the student is trained to be a highly competent
standard Dianetics auditor. It is a thorough course, taught tough, and
to graduate the student must have gotten excellent case gains himself
and on his preclears. He graduates by reason of excellent examination
marks and well-done sessions.

    The certificate for this course is the HUBBARD DIANETIC
COUNSELOR CERTIFICATE. The graduate of this course is
~NOT~ qualified to teach an HSDC.

    The second course is the HUBBARD DIANETIC
SUPERVISOR COURSE.

    This course requires that the student knows his Dianetics course
materials so well that he can point to anything in the materials.

    He must also know thoroughly the study material and supervision
technology.

    The Hubbard Dianetic Supervisor Course is taught only in official
Scientology churches, and is very tough with lots of drilling. The
student graduates as a HUBBARD DIANETICS GRADUATE and he, and only he,
is authorized to teach a Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course or a Hubbard
Dianetics Supervisor Course.

    A Dianetics Counseling Group* should have a Hubbard Dianetics
Graduate, as only then may it conduct and run a

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 953

Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course. And it must hold a franchise to do
so.

    It should send in to an official Scientology church its best
standard Dianetics auditors to be trained on the Hubbard Dianetics
Supervisor Course.

    As the teaching of basic data restimulates confusions which are then
dramatized by throwing the course offline, the teaching of the Dianetics
course is hugely vital.

    The teaching of Dianetic auditors is laid down on these simple
principles:

    1. The data on tapes, technical bulletins and books is studied
without alter-is, interpretation or addition by the student, fellow
student, instructor or supervisor.

    2. Well-done and other folders are studied by the individual
student.

    3. No lecturing or additional interpretation or evaluation by
supervisors.

    4. The student audits only when he has completely passed on (1) and
(2) above.

    5. Things the student is weak on are done in clay.

    6. The student is sent to cramming at his own expense for bad
auditing goofs. He may also be taken off auditing and made to do his
materials again.

    7. Any student question is answered by referring to the material,
folder or tape or by explaining it is beyond the scope of Dianetic
auditing.

    8. A rigid invariable schedule is precisely adhered to.

    The teaching of standard tech must also be standard. Therefore the
above MUST be adhered to completely.

    The only answers permitted to a student's demand for verbal
technical data or unusual solutions are:

    "The material is in (Technical Bulletin/Policy Letter*/Tape/book)."

    "What does your material state?"

    "What word did you miss in the (Technical Bulletin/Policy
Letter*/Tape/book)?"

    And (for requests for unusual auditing solutions) "What did you
actually do?"

    From time to time it will be found that when students enroll on a
course, the question of misunderstood words

                954 BOOK THREE

arises. This is best handled by getting the student to hunt up and
define ~with the source~ of the definition (technical bulletin date,
book name and page number, etc.). This allows the student to grasp the
meaning of the words used in the study of Scientology and Dianetics.
Words other than Scientology or Dianetic words are also clarified.

    A real stopper can be the words "Scientology" or "Dianetics."
Consult the student's understanding and not just accept what sounds like
a definition of these two words.

    Simple points like "why is Level 0 level 0?" can produce astonishing
resurgences in study velocity.

    Using the questions, "where were you doing well?" and "where did you
notice you ceased doing well?", zeroes in on the point or word or
principle misunderstood and sometimes just the first question blows a
lot.

    On many occasions it's the first word in the material or the title
of the technical bulletin so even check these.

    Sometimes tracing back where or when the student heard of Dianetics
or Scientology blows the trouble.

    These points must be handled skillfully and rarely more than once on
any occasion. Take it lightly and let the student win.

    A course supervisor can give himself and his students losses by
becoming too careful. The supervisor being over anxious and harassing
all his students to graduate without flunks can unwittingly bring about
slow, cautious students. This extends course time and the mode is
carried over into auditing. The students then become slow, cautious
auditors. An Auditor who, in session, is being careful not to flub, not
to violate any tech datum or policy will not have his TRs in, will not
have the pc in session and will flunk his auditing.

    Dianetics is a fast simple course. It is not complicated.

    The majority of students will fly through the course in two to three
weeks of full-time study. If they don't, the supervisor has probably
gotten too cautious and inadvertently slowed the course down.

    It happens several ways. For example: A student goes into auditing
and then flunks. The supervisor feels responsible for not having trained
the student adequately. He then takes up the student auditor's flunks
with the whole class

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 955

and has them all checkout on the bulletin so they won't make the same
mistake. Another example is the supervisor who gets anxious about the
few slow students on course. He feels he is failing as a supervisor to
have any slow students so starts spending much of his time coaching,
checking out and handling the few. It awards a downstat. This is done to
the detriment of the majority of fast students. The supervisor should
simply twin the slow students, have them work together using a
dictionary and checking each other out on the materials. When they
really know the data, the supervisor checks them out on their materials.
He doesn't spend a lot of time with them. If they just can't make the
grade he routes them off to Qual, for cramming and review to handle.

    There are two types of students:

    1. The student who has had good case gain and studies easily, or the
student who may not have had much auditing but studies and audits well
in spite of his case.

    2. The student whose case continuously gets in the way and requires
auditing before he will make much progress.

    The fast students are permitted to fly right along, no harassments
or interruptions, quick concise checkouts. They go fast. They are
encouraged to go fast. They get the idea that Dianetics is simple and
they want to audit. The supervisor doesn't introduce any complications
or unusual assignments or "special drills" not on the checksheet.* The
student then gets onto auditing. He knows the course was simple and
uncomplicated. He carries this attitude into auditing and produces
simple standard sessions with good results.

    The slow student is twinned (paired) with another slow student (not
with the supervisor) and if he doesn't make the grade at all he is sent
to Cramming after a period and auditing may be required. The system of
senior students auditing the newer students, together with any needed
reviews, will handle the (2) type student (particularly if a Class VIII
Case Supervisor and review auditor are available). The supervisor must
avoid being led into giving the slow student special attention and
additional time at the expense of the majority of fast students.

                956 BOOK THREE

    Supervisors are normally very hard working and conscientious. They
do an excellent job but can, in their own well intentioned desire to
have all students doing well, be misled into adding to the course,
becoming instructors instead of supervisors, getting too involved with
slow students thus slowing down the course as a whole and producing
slow, cautious students who carry this attitude into auditing and so
flunk sessions. A supervisor doing this can make students too frightened
to audit.

    If the supervisor validates the fast students by quick pertinent
checkouts, keeps the course simple and avoids all additives (like
assigning additional checkouts to the whole class, or group question and
answer periods, etc.) pairs up any slow students and uses standard
course policy, ethics and review, he will have a fast course and will
produce competent uncomplicated auditors who know and apply their data,
like to audit, and give good standard sessions.

    If at any time a supervisor or other person gives you
interpretations of technical bulletins or tells you, "that's old.
Read it but disregard it," or alters technology on you or
personally cancels bulletins or policy without being able to
show you a bulletin or policy that cancels it,
YOU MUST REPORT THE MATTER COMPLETE WITH
NAMES AND ANY WITNESSES ON DIRECT LINES TO
THE INTERNATIONAL ETHICS OFFICER via your local
church or mission.

    The only ways you can fail to get results on a pc are:

    1. Not study the technical bulletins and my books and tapes.

    2. Not apply what you studied.

    3. Follow "advice" contrary to what you find in 1 above.

    4. Fail to obtain the technical bulletins, books and tapes needed.

    There is no hidden data line.

    ~All~ of Dianetics and Scientology works.

    Any supervisor or executive who interprets, alters or cancels
technology is liable to the assignment of an ethics condition. ~All~ the
data is in technical bulletins or policy letters, books or on tape.

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 957

    Failures to make this known to every student carries a $10 fine for
every student from which it is withheld.

    The following study datum has emerged and been proven beyond any
question:

    NUMBER OF TIMES OVER THE MATERIAL EQUALS
CERTAINTY AND RESULTS.

    Study drills also use this datum. In study drills the student
studies the technical bulletins up to ten times through, doing something
to show and increase his understanding after each time through.

    Further--

    RESULTS IN THE STUDENT'S OWN CASE IS THE GUARANTEE
OF SUCCESSFUL APPLICATION BY THE STUDENT.

    ~Use~ these two data.


¤Auditor Trainees¤


    The first requisite of any auditor trainee is to find and run
secondaries and engrams on a preclear, preferably a fellow student, and
to have secondaries and engrams run on self.

    There is real magic in running secondaries and engrams. I have seen
the most fantastic recoveries from running merely a secondary (most
spectacular recoveries with secondaries were obtained from running the
death of an ally). I have seen severe physical ailments--heart disease,
arthritis, malfunction, allergies, impotency, frigidity, lameness, etc.
through the catalog of human ills--vanish or reduce on properly running
engrams to erasure. We are ~not~ in healing but we have fantastic
success with Dianetics in this activity.

    No auditor will ever be worth very much unless he has come in the
right way--through Dianetics. The concept of physical and mental
difficulty stemming from a mental image picture was a great discovery
and the technology of erasing such pictures as developed must not be
lost in our trained Scientologists. Whole lives can be changed by
finding and running the incident necessary to solve the case.

                958 BOOK THREE

    I have seen a woman who looked 60 appear 20 after nine hours of
auditing a single secondary (the recent death of her husband).

    When we originally tried to teach this technology (running of
secondaries and engrams, 1950 - 1952) we had no ethical system, we were
at that time already drowned with suppressive persons. Auditors weren't
duplicating tech. They often couldn't even state the basic definitions
of "secondary" or "engram." They steered the pc all over the track or
let him wander like a lost soul. They tried to force the pc to run the
auditor's aberrations. And it was a jolly old mess! But those few I
taught personally and simply had, as any old timer will tell you, the
most fantastic successes with incredibly low effort by the auditor.

    It's just a picture, secondary or engram. The whole of the technique
is just finding the incident the pc is "in," running the pc through the
incident, beginning to end, several times and not letting him digress
and letting him come up the tone scale ~past~ boredom to enthusiasm by
doing so. When I think of the millions of words I have had to speak or
write just to get that terrible simplicity across, I see it can be bent
as technology in a thousand thousand ways.

    The student has today guides he never had in 1950 - 1952. He has the
Auditor's Code, the actual responses of the E-meter, ethics and the
final solution of how to turn on visio even in suppressive persons
(SPs).

    No understanding of the mind is complete without a thorough grasp of
secondaries and engrams and running them. I have seen a person trained
up to a high level who suddenly flopped at V because he had no faintest
notion of ~what~ he was auditing.

    The budding psychoanalyst gets the shock of his life when he sees
there IS SOMETHING THERE. Before us, people thought the brain had short
circuits in it (psychologists and psychiatrists) or that a beast called
a Censor lived in a dungeon in it (Freud), or that evil spirits haunted
one (Christianity).

    The whole answer to the mind is mental pictures and masses created
by the thetan. There is no other source or cause of aberration. Unless a
student knows this he will

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 959

never make a good auditor and Scientologist. The only early way to get a
reality on it is to audit secondaries and engrams and be audited through
them. Unless students have actually audited or been audited on
secondaries and engrams they will never really have a reality on why
people act as they do or the complex nature of the bank.

    ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~ was written before
whole track was known. It made releases like mad but they were then
overrun like mad. It failed on only SPs and potential trouble sources.
It was and is the answer to psychosomatic ills and ~human~ aberration.

    My results with Dianetics were not always duplicated because:

    1. I stopped when the ability of the pc on any one subject was
regained.

    2. I audited smoothly.

    3. I didn't use the subject to invalidate the pc (see ~Original
Thesis~ on why auditing works).

    ~Many~ auditors ~did~ duplicate my results and at that time made
"Clears" which we now call releases due to ~total~ Clear being so much
higher.

    Scientology is the route from human being to total freedom and total
beingness. Dianetics is the route from aberrated or aberrated and ill
human to capable human. This step had never before been achieved in
Man's history.

    Oddly, the step from human being to a spirit had been achieved, if
rarely, but was not generally credited (Buddhism, other spiritual
practices, even Christianity). Scientology ~really~ achieves it with
TOTAL stability, no relapse and invariably one for one. Nevertheless Man
had an inkling of the goals of Scientology even though he considered
them almost beyond God.

    But Man had no inkling whatever of Dianetics. None. This was the
bolt from the blue. Man was hacking and sawing and shocking and
injecting and teaching and moralizing and counseling and hanging and
jailing men with enthusiasm without any idea at all of what caused Man
to behave as he did or what made him sick or well.

    The answer was and still is Dianetics.

                960 BOOK THREE

    It was the grandpa, the ancestor, the basic discovery which led to
and was the reason for Scientology.

    The ORIGINAL version of Dianetic auditing was all done on a
gradient. One searched nothing out by meters or trick question or tests
or flash answers. One got what the pc could comfortably face and audited
it. If the auditing was smoothly done, the next incident was tougher
~but~ the pc was comfortable in facing it. In that way, the incidents
(secondaries or engrams) become progressively more horrifying but the pc
is quite comfortable facing each one in turn. This is what is meant by
"gradient"--it is a steepening or an increasing from the slight to the
heavy. But you see the pc ~smoothly audited~ is gaining ability and
confidence all the time and so can face more and more violence in his
past. It's all there in pictures. Blackness is either his unwillingness
to face things or his basic bank. It cures (vanishes) if you do it by
gradients. And the pc soon can see pictures very well.

    Therefore IF your student is becoming a good auditor all you need to
do is look at his pc. If the pc is more confident and cheerful, then the
auditor is learning and doing well. If the pc isn't, the student auditor
has a rough spot and should go to cramming. If this doesn't work,
training being good, then the auditor is probably an SP who has no idea
of helping the pc at all but is using "auditing" to bust somebody up.

    Dianetics is too easy, really, for the student to conceive that his
minimum mild actions will produce such fabulous results. So the auditor
feels called upon to ~add~. Additives are what checked Dianetic results
in the vast majority of cases that were checked.

    The pc who wants to "pscyhoanalyze" (talk) by the hour isn't getting
audited and isn't going to get any better. This pc simply isn't under
auditor control so the auditor's control ~and~ TRs are at fault.

    The state of release attained by Dianetic auditing is below Grade 0
and should be regarded as such and is declared by Qual as "Dianetic
Release"--no grade number being given.

                THE VALUE OF TRAINING 961


¤Dianetic Course Auditing Requirements¤


    In conjunction with the expansion of its curriculum, the auditing
requirements of a Dianetic student for certification are as follows:

    25 hours total session time as an auditor.

This auditing must include the following:

    A. Touch Assists

    B. Contact assists

    C. Changing the life of someone who has lost a loved one by running
the secondary or chain to GIs

    D. Running straight engrams of former injuries

    E. Auditing assists on ill pcs, taking and tracing down every
manifested symptom to its engramic incident or chain

    F. Doing TRs with pcs and indoctrinating them as pcs.

    The 25 hours must contain one or more remarkable cases demonstrating
changes in the physical condition or well being of a preclear.

    Without these auditing actions and a total certainty Dianetics works
as demonstrated in the cases he handles, no student enrolling on a
Dianetics Course may be certified as a Hubbard Dianetic Auditor.

    The reasons Scientology auditors occasionally fail is that they seek
to use grades to make pcs well. Grades are a route to spiritual freedom
and greatly increased ability. Auditing a pc on grades who has not yet
attained physical well being as a human being is an oversight only one
not trained in and uncertain about Dianetics would tolerate. A Dianetic
auditor would use Dianetics to handle the lack of well being of the pc.

    A Scientology auditor who is also skilled in Dianetics would not
make the mistake of doing grade auditing on a temporarily or chronically
ill pc. He would shift off to Dianetics, run the secondaries or engrams
necessary to resolve the physical difficulty and then go on with
Scientology auditing.

    Sometimes a Scientology auditor who has not become adept at
Dianetics goes through his whole training thinking grades will
accomplish physical healing, auditing sick pcs and wondering why
"Scientology does not make them well"

                962 BOOK THREE

without ever realizing he is at cross purposes. He is trying to make
Scientology do with grades or remedies what is done easily with
Dianetics.

    A person can go all the way up the grades and into the OT sections
always looking only to "get well" and miss the entire thing, whereas a
remarkably little skilled application of Dianetic auditing would have
long ago resolved it. Persons who "don't make OT" are only persons who
didn't make Dianetics.

    It is vital then to give the Dianetic auditor total certainty of his
dominance in the field of making people recover and making them into
well happy human beings before he then starts them off into the upper
very valuable vital areas of Scientology grades.

    Most of the persons who want auditing are afflicted by discomfort
and unhappiness if not illness.

    The skill of the Dianetic auditor is no small thing. It is worth
attaining as itself. I myself, when called on to handle the ailing, pick
up my meter and go to work and in an hour or two have a miraculous
recovery. When I don't, which is seldom, I get the pc examined
clinically and find he or she has a broken skull or back or a gallstone
or some remediable thing. After this is fixed up, I once more audit them
and they finally emerge as bright well human beings.

    And I do not use in all this anything that is not contained in the
already published Dianetics materials.

    My percentage is 100 percent. And so can yours be.


                963


                ADDENDUM
                QUADRUPLE DIANETICS


    There is a fourth flow to Dianetics: it is "self to self."

    This adds to Dianetic triples and is the last of the four flows. It
is numbered "flow 0," (self doing something to self).

    Standard R3R commands are used on Quad Dianetics.

    The R3R step 1 command would be, "Locate an incident of you causing
yourself . . ." (the exact somatic or feeling used in flow 1); and the
R3R step 1A command, "Is there an earlier incident of you causing
yourself . . . ?" (the exact somatic or feeling used in flow 1),
Quadruple Dianetics is run flow 1, 2, 3, 0 in that order.

    The command for narrative R3R is "Locate a time when you caused
yourself to have/to be . . . (incident)."

    The command for secondaries would be "Locate a time when you caused
yourself to lose a (an) . . . (item)."

    With the other commands of R3R as usual.


¤Quad Rules¤


    There are two rules that must be observed in running Quad Dianetics:

    ONCE A PC HAS HAD QUAD HE'S QUAD THEREAFTER.

    WHEN CATCHING UP UNRUN FLOW ZEROS
ONLY RUN THOSE THAT READ.

    New pcs may be started on Quad Dianetics and if so must remain quad
thereafter.

    Old pcs run triple, let them remain triple unless a quadruple
rundown has to be done. If so put in the reading unrun flow 0s before
attempting a new rundown quad. There are probably quite a few pcs run on
quads from 1971 who have since been run triple. These pcs should be
called in by the auditor (or church) who delivered the triples and have
their reading unrun flow 0s run.

    Running unreading flow 0s when putting in missing flow 0s as in a
quad pc who was switched to triples then was having his unrun flow 0s
run is the reason for overrun

                964

manifestations and by-passed charge. In observing Quad Dianetics in the
hands of auditors not specially briefed or who had additives and
figure-figure on how to move a case already run on singles and triples
into quad, INVARIABLY THEY OVERRAN.

    This makes getting Quad Dianetics in on a case difficult and causes
case upsets unless the auditor has the hang of it.

    The flagrant (and I do mean flagrant) errors found consisted of:

    (a) not being able to run precise Standard Dianetics in the first
place;

    (b) re-running already erased chains "to find if they were flat";

    (c) out-TRs to a wild extent;

    (d) refusing utterly to accept a pc's data;

    (e) faulty metering;

    (f) complete ignorance of the Auditor's Code, notably committing the
crime of invalidating the pc;

    (g) running unreading flows when catching a pc up to quad.

    Already flat zero flows are not ~uncommon~. The zero flattened on
the original triple. Thus getting in that zero flow again is an overrun.

    With the introduction of Quadruple Dianetics the problem of how to
C/S it arises.

    This rule is followed:

    The fourth flow--zero--must be run on all items forward from the
first Dianetic item ever run on the case if the pc is quad and the flow
0 reads.

    Where a case has already had flow 2 and flow 3 run on singles, one
goes back and runs flow 0 on those items (if it reads).


¤By-passed Flow 0 s¤


    As an example of by-passed flows let us say several previous items
have been run triple. And the auditor now runs a new item quadruple.
This leaves unrun zero chains from the previously run triple items.
These can restimulate and form mass and by-passed charge.

                965

    Or let us say that Dianetics and Scientology grades were all run
triple. A new rundown is now run quad. This will throw all Dianetic and
Scientology unrun flow 0s into restimulation and give by-passed charge.

    LAW: WHEN ONE OR MORE OF THE FOUR FLOWS
OF AN ITEM OR GRADE ARE LEFT UNRUN, WHEN USED
IN LATER PROCESSES THE EARLIER UNRUN ONES
RESTIMULATE AND MAKE MASS.

    ~All~ items, in chronological sequence, and ~all~ processes would
have to be run quad.

    Whether you have the quad commands or not they are easy to figure
out as you are only missing the zero flow, self to self.

    So all C/Ses and auditing actions are "rehab or run flow 1, flow 2,
flow 3, flow 0 if they read," when getting in all flows on things run to
date.

    A safe course is to use quad only on new never audited before pcs.
Those begun on triples, use then only triple flows.

    As you read the remainder of this book you will find references to
Triple Dianetics meaning three flows R3R. However bearing in mind the
above rules four flows may be run.


                             . . . . . .


                THE DIANETIC AXIOMS

~AXIOM 1~ The source of life is a static of peculiar and particular
properties.

~AXIOM 2~ At least a portion of the static called life is impinged upon
the physical universe.

~AXIOM 3~ That portion of the static of life which is impinged upon the
physical universe has for its dynamic goal, survival and only survival.

~AXIOM 4~ The physical universe is reducible to motion of energy
operating in space through time.

~AXIOM 5~ That portion of the static of life concerned with the life
organisms of the physical universe is concerned wholly with motion.

~AXIOM 6~ The life static has as one of its properties the ability to
mobilize and animate matter into living organisms.

~AXIOM 7~ The life static is engaged in a conquest of the physical
universe.

~AXIOM 8~ The life static conquers the material universe by learning and
applying the physical laws of the physical universe.
    ~Symbol:~ The symbol for the ~life static~ in use hereafter is the
Greek letter ~theta~.

~AXIOM 9~ A fundamental operation of ~theta~ in surviving is bringing
order into the chaos of the physical universe.

~AXIOM 10~ Theta brings order into chaos by conquering whatever in MEST
may be pro-survival and destroying whatever in MEST may be
contra-survival, at least through the medium of life organisms.
    ~Symbol:~ The symbol for the ~physical universe~ in use hereafter is
~MEST~, from the first letters of the words Matter, Energy, Space and
Time, or the Greek letter ~phi~.

                968

~AXIOM 11~ A life organism is composed of matter and energy in space and
time, animated by ~theta~.
    ~Symbol:~ Living organism or organisms will hereafter be represented
by the Greek letter ~lambda~.

~AXIOM 12~ The ~MEST~ part of the organism follows the laws of the
physical sciences. All ~lambda~ is concerned with motion.

~AXIOM 13~ ~Theta~ operating through lambda converts the forces of the
physical universe into forces to conquer the physical universe.

~AXIOM 14~ Theta working upon physical universe motion must maintain a
harmonious rate of motion.
    The limits of lambda are narrow, both as to thermal and mechanical
motion.

~AXIOM 15~ Lambda is the intermediate step in the conquest of the
physical universe.

~AXIOM 16~ The basic food of any organism consists of light and
chemicals.
    Organisms can exist only as higher levels of complexities because
lower levels of converters exist.
    Theta evolves organisms from lower to higher forms and supports them
by the existence of lower converter forms.

~AXIOM 17~ Theta, via lambda effects an evolution of MEST.

    In this we have the waste products of organisms on the one hand as
those very complex chemicals which bacteria make, and, on the other
hand, we have the physical face of the earth being changed by animals
and men, such changes as grass holding mountains from eroding or roots
causing boulders to break, buildings being built, and rivers being
dammed. There is obviously an evolution in MEST in progress under the
incursion of THETA.

~AXIOM 18~ Lambda, even within a species, varies in its endowment of
Theta.

                969

~AXIOM 19~ The effort of Lambda is toward survival.
    The goal of Lambda is survival.
    The penalty of failure to advance toward that goal is to succumb.
    Definition: Persistence is the ability to exert continuance of
effort toward survival goals.

~AXIOM 20~ Lambda creates, conserves, maintains, requires, destroys,
changes, occupies, groups and disperses MEST. Lambda survives by
animating and mobilizing or destroying matter and energy in space and
time.

~AXIOM 21~ Lambda is dependent upon optimum motion. Motion which is too
swift and motion which is too slow are equally contra-survival.

~AXIOM 22~ Theta and thought are similar orders of static.

~AXIOM 23~ All thought is concerned with motion.

~AXIOM 24~ The establishment of an optimum motion is a basic goal of
reason.
    Definition: Lambda is a chemical heat engine existing in space and
time motivated by the life static and directed by thought.

~AXIOM 25~ The basic purpose of reason is the calculation or estimation
of effort.

~AXIOM 26~ Thought is accomplished by Theta facsimiles of physical
universe, entities or actions.

~AXIOM 27~ Theta is satisfied only with harmonious action or optimum
motion and rejects or destroys action or motion above or below its
tolerance band.

~AXIOM 28~ The mind is concerned wholly with the estimation of effort.
    Definition: Mind is the Theta command post of any organism or
organisms.

~AXIOM 29~ The basic errors of reason are failure to differentiate
amongst matter, energy, space and time.

~AXIOM 30~ Rightness is proper calculation of effort.

                970

~AXIOM 31~ Wrongness is always miscalculation of effort.

~AXIOM 32~ Theta can exert itself directly or extensionally.
    Theta can direct physical application of the organism to the
environment or through the mind, can first calculate the action or
extend, as in language, ideas.

~AXIOM 33~ Conclusions are directed toward the inhibition, maintenance
or accelerations of efforts.

~AXIOM 34~ The common denominator of all life organisms is motion.

~AXIOM 35~ Effort of an organism to survive or succumb is physical
motion of a life organism at a given moment in time through space.
    Definition: Motion is any change in orientation in space.
    Definition: Force is random effort.
    Definition: Effort is directed force.

~AXIOM 36~ An organism's effort can be to remain at rest or persist in a
given motion.
    Static state has position in time, but an organism which is
remaining positionally in a static state if alive, is still continuing a
highly complex pattern of motion, such as the heart beat, digestion,
etc. The efforts of organisms to survive or succumb are assisted,
compelled or opposed by the efforts of other organisms, matter, energy,
space and time.
    Definition: Attention is a motion which must remain at an optimum
effort.
    Attention is aberrated by becoming unfixed and sweeping at random or
becoming too fixed without sweeping. Unknown threats to survival when
sensed cause attention to sweep without fixing.
    Known threats to survival when sensed cause attention to fix.

~AXIOM 37~ The ultimate goal of Lambda is infinite Survival.

~AXIOM 38~ Death is abandonment by Theta of a life organism or race or
species where these can no longer serve Theta in its goals of infinite
survival.

                971

~AXIOM 39~ The reward of an organism engaging upon survival activity is
pleasure.

~AXIOM 40~ The penalty of an organism failing to engage upon survival
activity, or engaging in non-survival activity, is pain.

~AXIOM 41~ The cell and virus are the primary building blocks of life
organisms.

~AXIOM 42~ The virus and cell are matter and energy animated and
motivated in space and time by theta.

~AXIOM 43~ Theta mobilizes the virus and cell in colonial aggregations
to increase potential motion and accomplish effort.

~AXIOM 44~ The goal of viruses and cells is survival in space through
time.

~AXIOM 45~ The total mission of higher organisms, viruses and cells is
the same as that of the virus and cell.

~AXIOM 46~ Colonial aggregations of viruses and cells can be imbued with
more Theta than they inherently contained.
    Life energy joins any group whether a group of organisms or groups
of cells composing an organism. Here we have personal entity,
individuation, etc.

~AXIOM 47~ Effort can be accomplished by Lambda only through the
co-ordination of its parts toward goals.

~AXIOM 48~ An organism is equipped to be governed and controlled by a
mind.

~AXIOM 49~ The purpose of the mind is to pose and resolve problems
relating to survival and to direct the effort of the organism according
to these solutions.

~AXIOM 50~ All problems are posed and resolved through estimations of
effort.

~AXIOM 51~ The mind can confuse position in space with position in time.
(Counter-efforts producing action phrases.)

                972

~AXIOM 52~ An organism proceeding toward survival is directed by the
mind of that organism and the accomplishment of survival effort.

~AXIOM 53~ An organism proceeding toward succumb is directed by the mind
of that organism in the accomplishment of death.

~AXIOM 54~ Survival of an organism is accomplished by the overcoming of
efforts opposing its survival. (Note: Corollary for other dynamics.)
    Definition: Dynamic is the ability to translate solutions into
action.

~AXIOM 55~ Survival effort for an organism includes the dynamic thrust
by that organism for the survival of itself, its procreation, its group,
its sub-species, its species, all life organisms, material universe, the
life static and, possibly, a supreme being.
    (Note: List of dynamics.)

~AXIOM 56~ The cycle of an organism, a group of organisms or a species
is inception, growth, recreation, decay and death.

~AXIOM 57~ The effort of an organism is directed toward the control of
the environment for all the dynamics.

~AXIOM 58~ Control of an environment is accomplished by the support of
pro-survival factors along any dynamic.

~AXIOM 59~ Any type of higher organism is accomplished by the evolution
of viruses and cells into forms capable of better efforts to control or
live in an environment.

~AXIOM 60~ The usefulness of an organism is determined by its ability to
control the environment or to support organisms which control the
environment.

~AXIOM 61~ An organism is rejected by Theta to the degree that it fails
in its goals.

~AXIOM 62~ Higher organisms can exist only in the degree that they are
supported by the lower organisms.

                973

~AXIOM 63~ The usefulness of an organism is determined by the alignment
of its efforts toward survival.

~AXIOM 64~ The mind perceives and stores all data of the environment and
aligns or fails to align these according to the time they were
perceived.
    Definition: A conclusion is the Theta facsimiles of a group of
combined data.
    Definition: A datum is a Theta facsimile of physical action.

~AXIOM 65~ The process of thought is the perception of the present and
the comparison of it to the perceptions and conclusions of the past in
order to direct action in the immediate or distant future.
    Corollary: The attempt of thought is to perceive realities of the
past and present in order to predict or postulate realities of the
future.

~AXIOM 66~ The process by which life effects its conquest of the
material universe consists in the conversion of the potential effort of
matter and energy in space and through time to effect with it the
conversion of further matter and energy in space and through time.

~AXIOM 67~ Theta contains its own Theta universe effort which translates
into MEST effort.

~AXIOM 68~ The single arbitrary in any organism is time.

~AXIOM 69~ Physical universe perceptions and efforts are received by an
organism as force waves, convert by facsimile into Theta and are thus
stored.
    Definition: Randomity is the misalignment through the internal or
external efforts by other forms of life or the material universe of the
efforts of an organism, and is imposed on the physical organism by
counter-efforts in the environment.

~AXIOM 70~ Any cycle of any life organism is from static to motion to
static.

                974

~AXIOM 71~ The cycle of randomity is from static, through optimum,
through randomity sufficiently repetitious or similar to constitute
another static.

~AXIOM 72~ There are two subdivisions to randomity; data randomity and
force randomity.

~AXIOM 73~ The three degrees of randomity consist of minus randomity,
optimum randomity and plus randomity.
    Definition: Randomity is a component factor and necessary part of
motion, if motion is to continue.

~AXIOM 74~ Optimum randomity is necessary to learning.

~AXIOM 75~ The important factors in any area of randomity are effort and
counter-effort. (Note: As distinguished from near-perceptions of
effort.)

~Axiom 76~ Randomity amongst organisms is vital to continuous survival
of all organisms.

~AXIOM 77~ Theta affects the organism, other organisms and the physical
universe by translating Theta facsimiles into physical efforts or
randomity of efforts.
    Definition: The degree of randomity is measured by the randomness of
effort vectors within the organism, amongst organisms, amongst races or
species of organisms or between organisms and the physical universe.

~AXIOM 78~ Randomity becomes intense in indirect ratio to the time in
which it takes place, modified by the total effort in the area.

~AXIOM 79~ Initial randomity can be reinforced by randomities of greater
or lesser magnitude.

~AXIOM 80~ Areas of randomity exist in chains of similarity plotted
against time. This can be true of words and actions contained in
randomities. Each may have its own chain plotted against time.

~AXIOM 81~ Sanity consists of optimum randomity.

~AXIOM 82~ Aberration exists to the degree that plus or minus randomity
exists in the environment or past data of

                975

an organism, group or species modified by the endowed self-determinism
of that organism, group or species.

~AXIOM 83~ The self-determinism of an organism is determined by its
Theta endowment, modified by minus or plus randomity in its environment
or its existence.

~AXIOM 84~ The self-determinism of an organism is increased by optimum
randomity of counter-efforts.

~AXIOM 85~ The self-determinism of an organism is reduced by plus or
minus randomity of counter-efforts in the environment.

~AXIOM 86~ Randomity contains both the randomness of efforts and the
volume of efforts. (Note: An area of randomity can have a great deal of
confusion but, without volume of energy, the confusion itself is
negligible.)

~AXIOM 87~ That counter-effort is most acceptable to an organism which
most closely appears to assist its accomplishment of its goal.

~AXIOM 88~ An area of severe plus or minus randomity can occlude data on
any of the subjects of that plus or minus randomity which took place in
a prior time. (Note: Shut-off mechanisms of earlier lives, perceptics,
specific incidents, etc.)

~AXIOM 89~ Restimulation of plus, minus or optimum randomity can produce
increased plus, minus or optimum randomity respectively in the organism.

~AXIOM 90~ An area of randomity can assume sufficient magnitude so as to
appear to the organism as pain, according to its goals.

~AXIOM 91~ Past randomity can impose itself upon the present organism as
Theta facsimiles.

~AXIOM 92~ The engram is a severe area of plus or minus randomity of
sufficient volume to cause unconsciousness.

~AXIOM 93~ Unconsciousness is an excess of randomity imposed by a
counter-effort of sufficient force to cloud the

                976

awareness and direct function of the organism through the mind's control
center.

~AXIOM 94~ Any counter-effort which misaligns the organism's command of
itself or its environment establishes plus or minus randomity or, if of
sufficient magnitude, is an engram.

~AXIOM 95~ Past engrams are restimulated by the control center's
perception of circumstances similar to that engram in the present
environment.

~AXIOM 96~ An engram is a Theta facsimile of atoms and molecules in
misalignment.

~AXIOM 97~ Engrams fix emotional response as that emotional response of
the organism during the receipt of the counter-effort.

~AXIOM 98~ Free emotional response depends on optimum randomity. It
depends upon absence of or non-restimulation of engrams.

~AXIOM 99~ Theta facsimiles can recombine into new symbols.

~AXIOM 100~ Language is the symbolization of effort.

~AXIOM 101~ Language depends for its force upon the force which
accompanied its definition. (Note: Counter-effort, not language, is
aberrative.)

~AXIOM 102~ The environment can occlude the central control of any
organism and assume control of the motor controls of that organism.
(Engram, restimulation, locks, hypnotism.)

~AXIOM 103~ Intelligence depends on the ability to select aligned or
misaligned data from an area of randomity and so discover a solution to
reduce all randomity in that area.

~AXIOM 104~ Persistence obtains in the ability of the mind to put
solutions into physical action toward the realization of goals.

~AXIOM 105~ An unknown datum can produce data of plus or minus
randomity.

                977

~AXIOM 106~ The introduction of an arbitrary factor or force without
recourse to natural laws of the body or the area into which the
arbitrary is introduced brings about plus or minus randomity.

~AXIOM 107~ Data of plus or minus randomity depends for its confusion on
former plus or minus randomity or absent data.

~AXIOM 108~ Efforts which are inhibited or compelled by exterior efforts
effect a plus or minus randomity of efforts.

~AXIOM 109~ Behavior is modified by counter-efforts which have impinged
on the organism.

~AXIOM 110~ The component parts of Theta are Affinity, Reality and
Communication.

~AXIOM 111~ Self-determinism consists of maximal Affinity, Reality and
Communication.

~AXIOM 112~ Affinity is the cohesion of Theta.
    Affinity manifests itself as the recognition of similarity of
efforts and goals amongst organisms by those organisms.

~AXIOM 113~ Reality is the agreement upon perceptions and data in the
physical universe.
    All that we can be sure is real is that on which we have agreed is
real. Agreement is the essence of reality.

~AXIOM 114~ Communication is the interchange of perception through the
material universe between organisms or the perception of the material
universe by sense channels.

~AXIOM 115~ Self-determinism is the Theta control of the organism.

~AXIOM 116~ A self-determined effort is that counter-effort which has
been received into the organism in the past and integrated into the
organism for its conscious use.

~AXIOM 117~ The components of self-determinism are affinity,
communication and reality. Self-determinism is manifested along each
dynamic.

~AXIOM 118~ An organism cannot become aberrated unless it has agreed
upon that aberration, has been in communica-

                978

tion with a source of aberration and has had affinity for the aberrator.

~AXIOM 119~ Agreement with any source contra- or pro-survival postulates
a new reality for the organism.

~AXIOM 120~ Non-survival courses, thoughts and actions require
non-optimum effort.

~AXIOM 121~ Every thought has been preceded by physical action.

~AXIOM 122~ The mind does with thought as it has done with entities in
the physical universe.

~AXIOM 123~ All effort concerned with pain is concerned with loss.
    Organisms hold pain and engrams to them as a latent effort to
prevent loss of some portion of the organism. All loss is a loss of
motion.

~AXIOM 124~ The amount of counter-effort the organism can over come is
proportional to the theta endowment of the organism, modified by the
physique of that organism.

~AXIOM 125~ Excessive counter-effort to the effort of a life organism
produces unconsciousness.
    Corollary: Unconsciousness gives the suppression of an organism's
control center by counter-effort.
    Definition: The control center of the organism can be defined as the
contact point between Theta and the physical universe and is that center
which is aware of being aware and which has charge of and responsibility
for the organism along all its dynamics.

~AXIOM 126~ Perceptions are always received in the control center of an
organism whether the control center is in control of the organism at the
time or not.
    This is an explanation for the assumption of valences.

~AXIOM 127~ All perceptions reaching the organism's sense channels are
recorded and stored by Theta facsimile.
    Definition: Perception is the process of recording data from the
physical universe and storing it as a Theta facsimile.

                979

    Definition: Recall is the process of regaining perceptions.

~AXIOM 128~ Any organism can recall everything which it has perceived.

~AXIOM 129~ An organism displaced by plus or minus randomity is
thereafter remote from the perception recording center.
    Increased remoteness brings about occlusions of perceptions. One can
perceive things in present time and then, because they are being
recorded after they passed Theta perception of the awareness unit, they
are recorded but cannot be recalled.

~AXIOM 130~ Theta facsimiles of counter-effort are all that interpose
between the control center and its recalls.

~AXIOM 131~ Any counter-effort received into a control center is always
accompanied by all perceptics.

~AXIOM 132~ The random counter-efforts to an organism and the
intermingled perceptions in the randomity can re-exert that force upon
an organism when restimulated.
    Definition: Restimulation is the reactivation of a past
counter-effort by appearance in the organism's environment of a
similarity toward the content of the past randomity area.

~AXIOM 133~ Self-determinism alone brings about the mechanism of
restimulation.

~AXIOM 134~ A reactivated area of the past randomity impinges the
effort, and the perceptions upon the organism.

~AXIOM 135~ Activation of a randomity area is accomplished first by the
perceptions, then by the pain, finally by the effort.

~AXIOM 136~ The mind is plastically capable of recording all efforts and
counter-efforts.

~AXIOM 137~ A counter-effort accompanied by sufficient (enrandomed)
force impresses the facsimile of the counter-effort personality into the
mind of an organism.

                980

~AXIOM 138~ Aberration is the degree of residual plus or minus randomity
accumulated by compelling, inhibiting, or unwarranted assisting of
efforts on the part of other organisms or the physical (material)
universe.
    Aberration is caused by what is done to the individual, not what the
individual does, plus his self-determinism about what has been done to
him.

~AXIOM 139~ Aberrated behavior consists of destructive effort toward
pro-survival data or entities on any dynamic, or effort toward the
survival of contra-survival data or entities for any dynamic.

~AXIOM 140~ A valence is a facsimile personality made capable of force
by the counter-effort of the moment or receipt into the plus or minus
randomity of unconsciousness.
    Valences are assistive, compulsive or inhibitive to the organism.
    A control center is not a valence.

~AXIOM 141~ A control center effort is aligned toward a goal, through
definite space as a recognized incident in time.

~AXIOM 142~ An organism is as healthy and sane as it is self-determined.
    The environmental control of the organism motor-controls inhibits
the organism's ability to change with the changing environment, since
the organism will attempt to carry forward with one set of responses
when it needs by self-determinism to create another to survive in
another environment.

~AXIOM 143~ All learning is accomplished by random effort.

~AXIOM 144~ A counter-effort producing sufficient plus or minus
randomity to record is recorded with an index of space and time as
hidden as the remainder of its content.

~AXIOM 145~ A counter-effort producing sufficient plus or minus
randomity when activated by restimulation exerts itself against the
environment or the organism without regard to space and time, except
reactivated perceptions.

                981

~AXIOM 146~ Counter-efforts are directed out from the organism until
they are further enrandomed by the environ at which time they again
activate against the control center.

~AXIOM 147~ An organism's mind employs counter-efforts effectively only
so long as insufficient plus or minus randomity exists to hide
differentiation of the facsimiles created.

~AXIOM 148~ Physical laws are learned by life energy only by impingement
of the physical universe producing randomity, and a withdrawal from that
impingement.

~AXIOM 149~ Life depends upon an alignment of force vectors in the
direction of survival and the nullification of force vectors in the
direction of succumb in order to survive.
    Corollary: Life depends upon an alignment of force vectors in the
direction of succumb and the nullification of force vectors in the
direction of survive in order to succumb.

~AXIOM 150~ Any area of randomity gathers to it situations similar to it
which do not contain actual efforts but only perception.

~AXIOM 151~ Whether an organism has the goal of surviving or succumbing
depends upon the amount of plus or minus randomity it has reactivated
(not residual).

~AXIOM 152~ Survival is accomplished only by motion.

~AXIOM 153~ In the physical universe the absence of motion is
vanishment.

~AXIOM 154~ Death is the equivalent to life of total lack of
life-motivated motion.

~AXIOM 155~ Acquisition of pro-survival matter and energy
or organisms in space and time means increased motion.

~AXIOM 156~ Loss of pro-survival matter and energy or organisms in space
and time means decreased motion.

~AXIOM 157~ Acquisition or proximity of matter, energy or organisms
which assist the survival of an organism increase the survival
potentials of an organism.

                982

~AXIOM 158~ Acquisition or proximity of matter, energy or organisms
which inhibit the survival of an organism decrease its survival
potential.

~AXIOM 159~ Gain of survival energy, matter or organisms increases the
freedom of an organism.

~AXIOM 160~ Receipt or proximity of non-survival energy, matter or time
decreases the freedom of motion of an organism.

~AXIOM 161~ The control center attempts the halting or lengthening of
time, the expansion or contraction of space and the decrease or increase
of energy and matter.
    This is a primary source of invalidation, and it is also a primary
source of aberration.

~AXIOM 162~ Pain is the balk of effort by counter-effort in great
intensity, whether that effort is to remain at rest or in motion.

~AXIOM 163~ Perception, including pain, can be exhausted from an area of

plus or minus randomity still leaving the effort and counter-effort of
that plus or minus randomity.

~AXIOM 164~ The rationality of the mind depends upon an optimum reaction
toward time.
    Definition: Sanity, the computation of futures.
    Definition: Neurotic, the computation of present time only.
    Definition: Psychotic, computation only of past situations.

~AXIOM 165~ Survival pertains only to the future.
    Corollary: Succumb pertains only to the present and past.

~AXIOM 166~ An individual is as happy as he can perceive survival
potentials in the future.

~AXIOM 167~ As the needs of an organism are met it rises higher and
higher in its efforts along the dynamics.
    An organism which achieves ARC with itself can better achieve ARC
with sex in the future; having achieved this it

                983

can achieve ARC with groups; having achieved this, it can achieve ARC
with mankind, etc.

~AXIOM 168~ Affinity, Reality and Communication co-exist in an
inextricable relationship.
    The co-existent relationship between affinity, reality and
communication is such that none can be increased without increasing the
other two and none can be decreased without decreasing the other two.

~AXIOM 169~ Any aesthetic product is a symbolic facsimile or combination
of facsimiles of Theta or physical universes in varied randomities and
volumes of randomities with the interplay of tones.

~AXIOM 170~ An aesthetic product is an interpretation of the universes
by an individual or group mind.

~AXIOM 171~ Delusion is the postulation by the imagination of
occurrences in areas of plus or minus randomity.

~AXIOM 172~ Dreams are the imaginative reconstruction of areas of
randomity or the re-symbolization of the efforts of Theta.

~AXIOM 173~ A motion is created by the degree of optimum randomity
introduced by the counter-effort to an organism's effort.

~AXIOM 174~ MEST, which has been mobilized by life forms, is in more
affinity with life organisms than non-mobilized MEST.

~AXIOM 175~ All past perception, conclusion and existence moments,
including those of plus or minus randomity, are recoverable to the
control center of the organism.

~AXIOM 176~ The ability to produce survival effort on the part of an
organism is affected by the degrees of randomity existing in its past.
(This includes learning.)

~AXIOM 177~ Areas of past plus or minus randomity can be readdressed by
the control center of an organism and the plus or minus randomity
exhausted.

                984

~AXIOM 178~ The exhaustion of past plus or minus randomities permits the
control center of an organism to effect its own efforts toward survival
goals.

~AXIOM 179~ The exhaustion of self-determined effort from a past area of
plus or minus randomity nullifies the effectiveness of that area.

~AXIOM 180~ Pain is the randomity produced by sudden or strong
counter-efforts.

~AXIOM 181~ Pain is stored as plus or minus randomity.

~AXIOM 182~ Pain, as an area of plus or minus randomity, can re-inflict
itself upon the organism.

~AXIOM 183~ Past pain becomes ineffective upon the organism when the
randomity of its area is addressed and aligned.

~AXIOM 184~ The earlier the area of plus or minus randomity, the greater
self-produced effort existed to repel it.

~AXIOM 185~ Later areas of plus or minus randomity cannot be re-aligned
easily until earlier areas are re-aligned.

~AXIOM 186~ Areas of plus or minus randomity become increased in
activity when perceptions of similarity are introduced into them.

~AXIOM 187~ Past areas of plus or minus randomity can be reduced and
aligned by address to them in present time.

~AXIOM 188~ Absolute good and absolute evil do not exist in the MEST
universe.

~AXIOM 189~ That which is good for an organism may be defined as that
which promotes the survival of that organism.
    Corollary: Evil may be defined as that which inhibits or brings plus
or minus randomity in the organism, which is contrary to the survival
motives of the organism.

~AXIOM 190~ Happiness consists in the act of bringing alignment into
hitherto resisting plus or minus randomity. Neither the act or action of

attaining survival, nor the accomplishment of this act itself, brings
about happiness.

                985

~AXIOM 191~ Construction is an alignment of data.
    Corollary: Destruction is a plus or minus randomity of data.
    The effort of construction is the alignment toward the survival of
the aligning organism.
    Destruction is the effort of bringing randomity into an area.

~AXIOM 192~ Optimum survival behavior consists of effort in the maximum
survival interest in everything concerned in the dynamics.

~AXIOM 193~ The optimum survival solution of any problem would consist
of the highest attainable survival for every dynamic concerned.

~AXIOM 194~ The worth of any organism consists of its value to the
survival of its own Theta along any dynamic.


                ABOUT THE AUTHOR

    L. RON HUBBARD was born on the 13th of March, 1911 in Tilden,
Nebraska, USA, to Commander Harry Ross Hubbard of the US Navy and Dora
May Hubbard (nee Waterbury de Wolfe).

    He grew up in Montana with old frontiersmen and cowboys, and had an
Indian medicine man as one of his best friends. Here in Montana, L. Ron
Hubbard had his first encounter with another culture, the Blackfoot
(Pikuni) Indians. He became a blood brother of the Pikuni and was later
to write about them in his first published novel, ~Buckskin Brigades~.

    By the time he was 12 years old, he had read a good number of the
world's greatest classics and began to take interest in the fields of
religion and philosophy. During this time, while living in Washington,
D.C., he became a close friend of President Calvin Coolidge's son,
Calvin Jr., whose early death accelerated L. Ron Hubbard's interest in
the mind and spirit of Man.

    From 1925 to 1929, his father's career took the family to the Far
East where L. Ron Hubbard journeyed throughout Asia, exploring
out-of-the-way places, and saw many new peoples and customs.

    In 1929 with the death of his grandfather, the Hubbard family
returned to the United States and there L. Ron Hubbard continued his
formal education. He attended Swavely Prep School in Manassas, Virginia,
and went to high school at Woodward School for Boys in Washington, D. C.

    In 1930, he graduated from Woodward with honors, and enrolled at
George Washington University Engineering School in the fall. He became
the associate editor of the university newspaper and was a member of
many of the university's clubs and societies, including the Twentieth
Marine Corps Reserve and the George Washington College Company.

                988

    While at George Washington University, he learned to fly and
discovered a particular aptitude as a glider pilot. Here, also, he was
enrolled in one of the first nuclear physics courses ever taught in an
American university.

    As a student, barely twenty years old, he supported himself by
writing, and within a very few years he had established himself as an
essayist in the literary world.

    Even though he was very busy during these college years, L. Ron
Hubbard still found time for his exploring. In 1931, at the age of
twenty, he led the Caribbean Motion Picture Expedition as a director,
and underwater films made on that journey provided the Hydrographic
Office and the University of Michigan with invaluable data for the
furtherance of their research. And again in 1932, at twenty-one years of
age, L. Ron Hubbard led another expedition conducting the West Indies
Mineralogical Survey and made the first complete mineralogical survey of
Puerto Rico.

    Although very active in several areas, L. Ron Hubbard continued his
writing. Under about twenty different pen names millions of words poured
from his pen and into print, including both fact and fiction, travel
articles, stories of exploration and adventure, essays and anecdotes,
science fiction, and western stories appearing in over ninety magazines
and journals.

    In 1935, L. Ron Hubbard went to Hollywood and worked under motion
picture contracts as a scriptwriter. He is still very active in
Hollywood's movie production.

    While in Hollywood he continued his study of "What makes men tick,"
and in his own statement, L. Ron Hubbard dates the discovery of the
primary law of life, summarily expressed by the command "Survive!" at
1938.

    In 1940, as a duly elected member of the Explorers Club of New York,
L. Ron Hubbard conducted the Alaskan Radio Experimental Expedition. He
was awarded the Explorers Club flag for conducting this expedition.
Also, in 1940, he earned his "License to Master of Steam and Motor
Vessels," and within four and a half months obtained a second
certificate attesting to his marine skill: "License to Master of Sail
Vessels" ("Any Ocean").

                989

    In 1941, like many other young men of his generation, L. Ron Hubbard
was commissioned in the US Navy. He served in all five theaters of the
war. In 1944 he was severely wounded and was taken crippled and blinded
to Oak Knoll Naval Hospital. It was here that L. Ron Hubbard did much of
his early research on the human mind. At this time, he already had a
great deal of data on what was known about the mind. Earlier, between
the years of 1923 and 1928, he had received an extensive education in
the field of the human mind from Commander Thompson of the Medical Corps
of the US Navy, a friend of his father and a personal student of Sigmund
Freud. Injured, L. Ron Hubbard faced an almost non-existent future, yet
he worked his way back to fitness, strength and full perception in less
than two years, using only what he knew and could determine about Man
and his relationship to the universe.

    Some of his early research was spent determining whether the mind
regulated the body or the body regulated the mind. If the mind was
capable of putting restraint upon the physical body, then obviously the
fact that was commonly held to be true, that the body regulated the
mind, was false. He went about proving this.

    And so, L. Ron Hubbard continued studying, researching, and
synthesizing this knowledge with what he had learned of Eastern
philosophy, his understanding of nuclear physics, and his experiences
among men, to form some of the basic tenets of Dianetics and
Scientology.

    After leaving Oak Knoll, the study, work, writing and research
continued at a rapid pace. And then in 1948, he wrote ~Dianetics: The
Original Thesis~, his first formal report of the mysteries of the mind
and life, which was a fifty thousand word revelation.

    The interest in Dianetics spread like wildfire. Letters asking for
clarifications and advice and more data poured in, and just answering
them was becoming a full-time occupation.

    So the work continued, work on an extensive popular text on the
subject of Dianetics that would answer all questions. In May of 1950,
~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~ exploded onto the
booklists, leapt to the top

                990

of the ~New York Times~ Best-Seller List and stayed there. It is still a
best seller today.

    L. Ron Hubbard then founded in 1950 the Hubbard Dianetic Foundation
in Elizabeth, New Jersey to facilitate auditing and training the public
in Dianetics.

    During the next twenty-four years many, many churches and missions
have been established all over the planet to professionally deliver L.
Ron Hubbard's technology standardly to the peoples of the world.

    The founder of Dianetics and Scientology, L. Ron Hubbard, lives with
his wife, Mary Sue, and their children: Quentin, 21; Suzette, 20; and
Arthur, 16. Their eldest daughter, Diana, 22, is happily married.

    Today, L. Ron Hubbard continues his life's work unabated, writing,
researching and exploring new avenues and hitherto unexplored realms of
life and the human spirit.


                BIBLIOGRAPHY

    In 1950, L. Ron Hubbard said, "For God's sake, get busy and build a
better bridge!"

    He went about doing this.

    He constructed the Bridge first with Dianetics and then with
Scientology. Today, that Bridge is completed.

    In this bibliography, you'll find all he has written or spoken on
the subject of Dianetics, how he has laid out the part of the Bridge
that is Dianetics, and given Mankind the technology of Dianetics to use
for human betterment.

    The Bridge is ready ~for you~ to travel over!

    It's truly your adventure into Terra Incognita (the human mind).

    The way you travel across the Bridge is by finding out what
Dianetics is--through duplicating the technology of Dianetics, and by
your applying it to another human being and by getting it applied to
yourself.

    From this, you find out something marvelous--IT WORKS!

    And this bibliography helps you gain the knowledge and technology of
Dianetics.


¤Dianetic Books¤


    *~Dianetics: The Original Thesis~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Wichita
Publishing Co., Wichita, 1951. (This was issued as a manuscript in 1948.
Its hard-cover edition came out, however, in 1951. It was written for
presentation to the medical profession and to psychiatrists. It is the
actual first book of Dianetics. The first statement of Dianetics and
what it is. It gives the primary axioms of Dianetics, tells about the
reactive mind, gives a clear statement of the basic individual, tells
what engrams are, gives data on the Tone Scale, tells what auditing is,
and tells what the "laws" of returning are, and much more.)

                992

*~Dianetics: The Evolution of a Science~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Hubbard
Association of Scientologists International Ltd., London, England, 1954.
(This was issued as a book-length feature in the May (American) and June
(British) 1950 issue of ~Astounding Science Fiction~ magazine as a
preview to ~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~. It is a
fascinating exposition of the Dianetic breakthrough on the subject of
the anatomy of the human mind--how it works, what happens to it under
stress, shock, pain or unconsciousness and the basic single answer to
the resolution of its aberration by Dianetic methods.)

*~Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health~ by L. Ron Hubbard.
Hermitage House, New York, 1950. (This is the first published book of a
detailed popular nature on Dianetics. This is ~the~ book that burst onto
the Western world in May, 1950, went to the top of the bestseller lists
and stayed there for week after week, month after month. It still is a
best-seller today. This is the exciting basic textbook of Dianetics. It
gives the fantastic discoveries about the human mind which resulted from
a quarter of a century of research by L. Ron Hubbard, and gives the
single answer to the resolution of human aberration. Often called "Book
One.")

*~Notes on the Lectures~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Hubbard Research Unit, Los
Angeles, California, 1951. (This book was compiled in 1950 by the staff
of the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation of California from L. Ron
Hubbard's California Lecture Series in the fall of 1950. The chapters of
this book signalize a series of crucial breakthroughs, one after
another, in the research and development of Dianetics. These were to
become the basic expansion points of Dianetics which began and were the
reason for Scientology. It has a fascinating chapter on Group Dianetics
in the back of the book.)

                993

*~Child Dianetics~, written and edited by the staff of the Hubbard
Dianetic Foundation, Inc. International Library of Arts and Sciences,
Wichita, Kansas, 1951. (Published by staff to meet the demand for an
application of Dianetic principles especially for parents and teachers
in helping children. The excellent introduction to the book is written
by L. Ron Hubbard. In it, he tells adults how to handle children.)

*~Science of Survival~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Wichita Publishing Co.,
Wichita, Kansas, 1951. (This is the work which is startling the
scientific world with its accurate methods of predicting human behavior
and its insights into the activities of Man. Included with the book is
the famous Hubbard Chart of Human Evaluation. This book tells what the
goal of Dianetics is, goes into the Tone Scale in depth, gives an exact
description of the Theta-Mest Theory, tells about ARC and gives basic
data on Dianetic processing. This book is referred to as "Book Two.")

*~Self Analysis~ by L. Ron Hubbard, International Library of Arts and
Sciences, Wichita, Kansas, 1951. (A simple and extremely workable
self-help volume of tests and processes based on the discoveries
contained in Dianetics. Easily and enjoyably self-administered.)

*~Advanced Procedure and Axioms~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Central Press,
Wichita, Kansas, 1951. (A concise, fascinating account of the various
types of cases one encounters in life and the advanced Dianetic
processes and fundamentals used to assess and resolve them. Contains
over 200 definitions, logics and axioms of advanced Dianetics. This is
the book of the next major breakthrough on the subject begun in
Dianetics and actually moves beyond the field of the mind into the
codification of the basic principles of existence.)

                994

*~Handbook for Preclears~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Scientific Press, Phoenix,
Arizona, 1951. (This book contains a list of the logics and axioms of
Dianetics and Scientology. It was written by L. Ron Hubbard to meet the
demand for a personal workbook, a good sound text that anyone could pick
up and learn, and follow in easily done steps to gain certain definite
changes in the conditions of their lives.

*~Self Analysis in Dianetics~ by L. Ron Hubbard. Derricke Ridgeway,
London, England, 1952. (The British edition of ~Self Analysis in
Scientology~. This was the modern 1952 self-processing book.)

*~Dianetics '55!~ by L. Ron Hubbard, Hubbard Dianetic Research
Foundation, Phoenix, Arizona, 1955. (The manual of human communication.
Gives in detail the major discovery of the communication formula and how
to apply it in life and in the techniques of Scientology. This book
makes the bridge from Dianetics to Scientology.)

*~Have You Lived Before This Life?~ by L. Ron Hubbard, Hubbard
Association of Scientologists International Ltd., London, England, 1958.
(This book, a scientific survey by L. Ron Hubbard is a study of past
lives through Dianetic engrams. This is a record of the data given
during processing. It is a scientific assessment of what the subjects
said. It contains no evaluation of the truth or falsity of data.)

*~The Basic Dianetics Picture Book~, taken from the works of L. Ron
Hubbard, Revised Edition. Scientology Publications Organization Denmark,
Copenhagen, 1972. (This is the visual aid to a better understanding of
Man and the mind taken from the works of L. Ron Hubbard.)


¤Dianetic Articles¤


"Terra Incognita: The Mind," ~The Explorer's Journal~, Winter-Spring,
1950, Volume XXVIII, No. 1

                995

"Dianetics: The Evolution of A Science," ~Astounding Science Fiction~,
May, 1950.

"Standard Procedure," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard Research
Foundation, Inc., Elizabeth, N.J., July-August, 1950.

"How To Release A Chronic Somatic," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~,
Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, September,
1950.

"Dianetics and Religion," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard
Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, October, 1950.

"The Analytical Mind," ~Astounding Science Fiction~, October, 1950.

"The Processing of Children," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard
Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, November, 1950.

"Handling The Psychotic," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard
Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, December, 1950.

"Dianometry: Your Ability and State of Mind," ~Astounding Science
Fiction~, January, 1951.

"The Theory of Affinity, Reality and Communication," ~Dianetic Auditor's
Bulletin~, Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas,
February, 1951. (Edited by Richard deMille)

"The Problem of Sedation," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard
Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, March, 1951.

"Lock Scanning," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard Dianetic
Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, April-May, 1951.

                996

"Preventive Dianetics," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard Dianetic
Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, June, 1951.

"Education And The Auditor," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard
Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, July, 1951.

"Basic Reason, Basic Principles," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard
Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, September, 1951.

"All Possible Aberrations," ~Supplement Number One to Science of
Survival~, Hubbard Dianetic Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, 1951.

"Validation Processing," ~Supplement Number Two to Science of Survival~,
Hubbard Dianetic Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, 1951.

"MEST Processing," ~Supplement Number Three to Science of Survival~,
Hubbard Dianetic Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, 1951.

"A Brief History of Psycho-Therapy," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~,
Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, November,
1951.

"An Afternoon With Ron," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard Dianetic
Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, January, 1952.

"Cause and Effect," ~Dianetic Auditor's Bulletin~, Hubbard Dianetic
Research Foundation, Inc., Wichita, Kansas, February, 1952.


¤Professional Auditor's Bulletin¤


*"Bottom Rung of Dianetics Found" by L. Ron Hubbard. ~PAB 80~, Hubbard
Communications Office, London, April

                997

17, 1956. (In this article, L. Ron Hubbard tells about a recent
discovery concerning games, and how it relates to Dianetics and handling
engrams.)


¤Journals of Scientology¤


    (Published by the Hubbard Association of Scientologists during the
years 1952 to early 1955.)

"The Handling of Arthritis" by L. Ron Hubbard. ~Journal of Scientology
1-G~, HASI, Phoenix, Arizona, 1952. (In this article L. Ron Hubbard
tells what arthritis is actually, where it is on the Tone Scale, what to
run on arthritic cases, and that they can be handled.)

"Danger: Black Dianetics" by L. Ron Hubbard. ~Journal of Scientology
3-G~, HASI, Phoenix, Arizona, 1952. (In this article L. Ron Hubbard says
that adequate laws do not exist at this time to bar the use of Black
Dianetics techniques. He gives examples of Black Dianetics exerted since
the dawn of time. Tells of its danger. The first of three articles on
Black Dianetics released to the public.)

"The Loophole in Guarded Rights" by L. Ron Hubbard. ~Journal of
Scientology 4-G~, HASI, Phoenix, Arizona, 1952. (In this article, L. Ron
Hubbard tells how an invalidation of Dianetics, as a process by which
aberration can be relieved, works in the direction of permitting Black
Dianetics to be employed without censure upon luckless human beings who
may not even know that it has so been employed. He tells how the
processes of Black Dianetics can be remedied by what might be called
White Dianetics. In this article he tells exactly what Black Dianetics
is, and why it became necessary to release the natural laws of
Dianetics. The second of three articles on Black Dianetics.)

"Records of Mind Are Permanent" by L. Ron Hubbard. ~Journal of
Scientology 5-G~, HASI, Phoenix, Arizona, 1952. (In this article, L. Ron
Hubbard tells how the very processes of the mind are used for Man's
control, when

                998

utilized by persons seeking power. He tells what pain is. He points out
that when pain departs, it is still on record. He gives two ways to test
that. He tells about counter-effort and how it acts upon the body. He
also gives an exercise you can do with your body to feel the aliveness
or full sense of being of different parts of the body. The last of three
articles on Black Dianetics.)

~Editor's Note:~ Those Dianetic books, articles, the PAB, and Journals
of Scientology with an asterisk (*) alongside their titles are available
~now~ from Scientology Publications Organization Denmark, Jernbanegade
6, 1608, Copenhagen V, Denmark or from Scientology Publications
Organization United States, c/o American Saint Hill Organization, 2723
West Temple Street, Los Angeles, California 90026. (See back of the book
for prices for these books, articles, the PABs and Journals of
Scientology.)

    Those without an asterisk aren't available at this time. They'll be
available in the future. Watch for an announcement of their impending
release from Scientology Publications Organization Denmark or the United
States, and be sure to get them.


¤Dianetic Tapes¤


    In order for you to gain a full and complete understanding of the
technology of Dianetics, a list of Dianetic tapes through the years has
been especially compiled for you. This is so that you may get them,
listen to them and be able to use this data in appyling Dianetics to
preclears, and thus bring about a saner world.

    When listening to these tapes, you should realize that some of these
tapes also give or relay Scientology concepts or talk about Scientology
to a great degree. You'll be listening to Dianetics in terms of how it
developed and evolved along the time track from 1950 to present time.
The tapes have applicability in the subject of Dianetics as well as
Scientology.

    Each tape has a tape number. This is the left-hand column. The first
two numbers give the year of the tape, the

                999

second two numbers give the month of the tape, C stands for copy and the
third two numbers give the day of the tape.

    Example:

    5707C26 = 1957, July, Copy, 26th = July 26, 1957 Copy.

    The second or middle column gives the tape series abbreviation of
the tape and the tape number for that series.

    Example: PDC 4 = Philadelphia Doctorate Course, Lecture 4.

    Here is a list of the tape series abbreviations used on the Dianetic
tape list in alphabetical order.

A             Accessibility
2ACC          2nd Advanced Clinical Course
3ACC          3rd Advanced Clinical Course
4ACC          4th Advanced Clinical Course
6ACC          6th Advanced Clinical Course
8ACC          8th Advanced Clinical Course
9ACC          9th Advanced Clinical Course
15ACC         15th Advanced Clinical Course
16ACC         16th Advanced Clinical Course
17ACC         17th Advanced Clinical Course
18ACC         18th Advanced Clinical Course
21ACC         21st Advanced Clinical Course
22ACC         22nd Advanced Clinical Course
ACSA          Anatomy Congress, South
              	Africa
AHMC          Anatomy of the Human Mind Congress
AICL          Advanced Indoctrination Course Lectures
CAC           Completed Auditor's Course
CHC           Clean Hands Congress
CONF          Conference
DCL           December Conference Lectures
FAC           Foundation Auditor's Course
FC            Freedom Congress
HEV           Human Evaluation Course
HPC           Hubbard Professional Course
ICDS          International Congress of Dianeticists
              	and Scientologists
4LACC         4th London Advanced Clinical Course

                1000

5LACC         5th London Advanced Clinical Course
LAM           London Auditor's Meetings
LCC           London Clearing Congress
LECT          Lecture
LGC           London Group Course
LPC           London Professional Course
LPLS          London Public Lecture Series
1MACC         1st Melbourne Advanced Clinical Course
OCT S         October Series
PDC           Philadelphia Doctorate Course
PLPS          Phoenix Public Lecture and Processing Series
PLS           Public Lecture Series
3SA ACC       3rd South African Advanced Clinical Course
SC            Success Congress
SHPA          Special Hubbard Professional
              	Auditor's Course
SH SPEC       Saint Hill Special Briefing Course
SOP DEMO      Standard Operating Procedure
              	Demonstration
SPR           London Spring Lecture
STP           Standard Procedure Lectures
TCC           Theta Clear Congress
UPC           Universe Process Congress
VP            Validation Processing

    The third or right-hand column gives the title of the tape:

*50--C--                        Emergency Measures
*50--C--                        Push Buttons I
 50--C--                        Medical Dianetics
*50--C--                        Emotion (Part A)
*50--C--                        Emotion (Part B)
*50--C--                        Language Adjustment
*5008C30                        Preventive Dianetics
*5009C23     PLS-1              Introduction to Dianetics
*5009C23     PLS-2              What Dianetics Can Do
*5009C28     SOP-Demo           Running a Secondary
*5009C28                        Stalled Cases
*5009C29                        Coitus Engram
*5009C29                        Guk & Freewheeling

                1001

*5010C05     STP-1              Standard Procedure (Part A)
*5010C05     STP-2              Standard Procedure (Part B)
*5010C05     STP-3              Standard Procedure (Part C)
*5010C05     STP-4              Standard Procedure (Part D)
*5010C05     STP-5              Standard Procedure (Part E)
*5011C10                        Handling Psychotics
 5011C11                        Educational Dianetics
*5011C22     STP-6              Auditor's Code & Standard
                                	Procedure (Part A)
*5011C22     STP-7              Auditor's Code & Standard
                                	Procedure (Part B)
*5011C24     STP-8              Case Entrance (Part A)
*5011C24     STP-9              Case Entrance (Part B)
*5011C25     STP-10             ARC & Four Dynamics (Part A)
*5011C25     STP-11             ARC & Four Dynamics (Part B)
*5011C27     STP-12             Standard Procedure (Part A)
*5011C27     STP-13             Standard Procedure (Part B)
*5011C28     STP-14             Valence and Demon Circuits
*5011C29     STP-15             Standard Procedure -
                                	Circuits & Valences
*5011C30     STP-16             Standard Procedure - Step III
 5011C30                        Groups (Part I & II)
 5011C30                        Groups (Part III)
 5011C30                        Groups (Part V, VII & VIII)
*5101C18     A-1                Accessability
*5101C18     A-2                Hurdy Gurdy Straight Wire
                                	& Haywire
 5104C09                        Time
 5104C09                        Motion
 5105C21                        Introduction to Science
                                	of Survival
 5106C04                        All Possible Aberration
 5106C25                        Techniques - Tone Scale
                                	(Part I, II & III)
 5106C25                        Techniques - Tone Scale
                                	(Part IV & VI)
 5106C26     HEV-1              Chart of Human Evaluation
 5106C27     VP-1               Intro to Validation Processing
                                	(Part A)
 5106C27     VP-2               Chronic Somatics (Part B)
 5106C27     VP-3               Self Auditing, Guk,
                                	Extroversion (Part C)

                1002

 5106C27     VP-4               Demo of Validation Processing
                                	(Part D)
*5106C28     CAC-1A             Auditing Tech: The
                                	Completed Auditor
             CAC-1B             Dynamics: Int - Exterior
*5106C28     CAC-2A             The Completed Auditor:
                                	SOP Auditing
             CAC-2B             Introversion- Extroversion,
                                	Past Deaths and Lives
             CAC-2C             Conclusion
 5106C30                        MEST, Theta & ARC
 5107C09                        Validation Processing (Part A)
 5107C09                        MEST Processing (Part B)
 5107C09                        Addenda - MEST Processing
                                	(Part C)
 5107C16                        Some Educational Data
 5107C16                        More on MEST Processing
 5107C23                        Time Track
 5107C23                        Basic Processing
 5107C30                        Basic Reason (Part A)
 5107C30                        Basic Reason (Part B)
 5108C06                        Survival Processing (Part A)
 5108C06                        Survival Processing (Part B)
*5108C13     HEV-2              Human Evaluation
*5108C13     HEV-3              Second Evening Lecture
*5108C14     HEV-4              Conquest of the
                                	Physical Universe
*5108C14     HEV-5         	  Parts of the Mind
*5108C15     HEV-6              Human Evaluation -
                                	Tone Scale
*5108C15     HEV-7              Human Evaluation - Talk
                                	About the Tone Scale
*5108C16     HEV-8              Motion - Emotion
*5108C16     HEV-9              Human Evaluation -
                                	Physiology
*5108C17     HEV-10             Human Evaluation -
                                	Physiological Aspects of
                                	Motion/Emotion
*5108C17     HEV-11             Human Evaluation -
                                	ARC Triangle
 5108C27                        Motion & Emotion -
                                	Line Charge

                1003

 5108C27                        Motion & Emotion -
                                	Line Charge
 5108C28                        Psychotics
 5108C28                        Analytical Mind
 5109C04                        Time & Motion
 5109C04                        Illusion
 5109C17                        Some Notes on Black Dianetics
 5109C17                        The Cellular Postulate
*5110C09     Oct. S. IIB        Dianetic Axioms 1-14
*5110C10     Oct. S. IIIA       Dianetic Axioms 14-32
*5110C10     Oct. S. IIIB       Theory of Epicenters
*5110C11     Oct. S. IVA        Dianetic Axioms 33-59
*5110C11     Oct. S. IVB        Theory of Epicenters -
                                	Self Determinism
*5110C12     Oct. S. VA         Dianetic Axioms - Continued
*5110C12     Oct. S. VB         Dianetic Axioms - Continued
 5110C22                        The Human Mind vs. the
                                	Electronic Computer
                                    (Part I)
 5110C22                        The Human Mind vs. the
                                	Electronic Computer
                                	(Part II)
*5110C23     FAC-3A             Foundation Auditor's Course
                                	(Part I)
*5110C23     FAC-3B             Foundation Auditor's Course
                                	(Part II)
*5110C24     FAC-4              Foundation Auditor's Lecture
                                	(Part I)
*5110C24     FAC-5              Foundation Auditor's Lecture
                                	(Part II)
*5110C25     FAC-6              Foundation Auditor's Lecture
                                	- The Service Facsimile
*5110C26     FAC-7              Foundation Auditor's Course
                                	- Evolution of Man
                                    According to the Facsimile
                                    (Part I)
*5110C26     FAC-8              Foundation Auditor's Course
                                	- Evolution of Man
                                    According to the Facsimile
                                    (Part II)
 5110C29                        The Theta Facsimile (Part I)
 5110C29                        The Theta Facsimile (Part II)
 5111C12                        Basic Postulates
 5111C12                        Prime Thought
 5111C26                        An Analysis of Memory (Part I)

                1004

 5111C26                        An Analysis of Memory
                                	(Part II)
 5112C03                        Discussion on Advanced
                                	Procedures
 5112C03                        Advance Procedures
                                	& Cause & Effect
 5112C10     PLS-7              Dead Men's Goals
 5112C17                        Regret & Seriousness
                                	- Counter Efforts
 5112C17                        Counter Effort, Counter
                                	Emotion, Counter Thought
 5112C21                        Regret & Seriousness (Part I)
 5112C21                        On Handbook for Pc's
                                	- Service Fac I
 5112C21                        Regret & seriousness (Part II)
*5112C27                        First December Conference
                                	Lecture (Part I)
*5112C27                        First December Conference
                                	Lecture - Definition of
                                    Terms (Part II)
*5112C28     DCL-2A             Chart of Attitudes
*5112C28     DCL-2B             Life Continuum Theory
*5112C29     DCL-3A             The Goal of Processing (Part I)
*5112C29     DCL-3B             The Goal of Processing (Part II)
*5112C29     DCL-4A             Cause & Effect
*5112C29     DCL-4B             Self Analysis Handbook
 5201C07                        Survival
 5201C14                        The Emotional Curve
*5209C21                        Basis of Scientology
                                	- Dianetics (Part I)
 5211C10     LPC-1A             Definition of Dianetics &
                                	Scientology, other
                                    Philosophies
 5212C02     PDC-4              Locks, Secondaries, Engrams
                                	- How to Handle Them
 53--C--     LGC-2              History of the Organization:
                                	Self-Analysis
 5303C23     Spr Lect 1         Review of Dianetics,
                                	Scientology & Para
                                    Dianetics/Scientology
 5309C30     ICDS-1             History & Development
                                	of Dianetics
 5310C26     AICL-17A           Restimulation of Engrams,
                                	Experience

                1005

 5312C02     2ACC-14B           Blackness
*5401C15     3ACC-24            Present Time, Self Analysis
 5403C29     4ACC-72            Universe Series: Self Analysis
*5406C04     6ACC-37            The Mind and the Tone Scale
 5406C05     UPC-1              Opening Lecture - History
                                	of Dianetics and
                                    Scientology
 5406C0--    UPC-3              Theta-MEST Theory - The
                                	Tone Scale, Freedom,
                                    Space, etc.
 5406C0--    UPC-11             Theta-MEST Theory - Being
                                	A Problem Aspect
*5406C17     6ACC-50            Assists
 5407C30     Conf.              Certificates of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
 5409C14     Lect.              Dianetic Group Processing
*5410C19     8ACC-13            Axioms of Dianetics
 5410C26     8ACC-19            Survive
*5410C27     8ACC-20            Hypnotism
 5410C27     PLS                Principal Difference Between
                                	Dianetics and
                                    Scientology
 5411C11     8ACC-31            Scope of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
 5412C10     9ACC-5             Practice of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
*5502C02     PLS                Alcoholism
*5504C27     PLPS               Grey Dianetics
 5505C11     PLPS               Operation Manual For
                                	The Mind
*5510C08     LPLS-1             Goals of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
 5510C11     LPLS               History of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
 5510C25     4LACC-33           Engrams
 5510C26     4LACC-36           Solving Engrams with
                                	Stable Datum
 5601C24     LAM-11             The Role of Creation
                                	in Aberration
 5608C--     HPC A6-18          Chronic Somatics
 5610C28     15ACC-11           The Mind
 5611C06     15ACC-17           Time Track
 5701C09     16ACC-6            Obnosis
 5703C12     17ACC-12           Survival
 5703C12     17ACC-18           The Assist

                1006

*5707C04     FC-1               Opening Lecture - How We
                                	Have Addressed the
                                    Problem of the Mind
*5707C26     18ACC-10           The Mind: Its Structure in
                                	Relation to Thetan
                                    and MEST
 5708C01     18ACC-14           Thinnies
 5810C18     LCC-1              Story of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
*5810C27     5LACC-1            Clearing and What it
                                	Generally Means to Man
*5810C28     5LACC-2            Compartmentation of
                                	4 Universes
*5810C29     5LACC-3            Types of Pictures
 5810C30     5LACC-4            Mental Image Pictures,
                                	Engrams
 5810C31     5LACC-5            Engrams
 5811C03     5LACC-6            The Detection of Engrams
 5811C04     5LACC-7            The Detection of Engrams
                                	with an E-meter
 5811C05     5LACC-8            Detection of Engrams III,
                                	"Finding Truth With An
                                    Electronic Gimmick"
 5811C06     5LACC-9            Difficulties Encountered
                                	in Search For Engrams
*5811C07     5LACC-10           Detection of Circuits
                                	and Machinery
*5811C10     5LACC-11           Auditing: Its Skills
*5811C11     5LACC-12           The Skill of an Auditor
*5811C12     5LACC-13           The Skill of an Auditor
 5811C13     5LACC-14           The Attitude of an Auditor
 5811C14     5LACC-15           What an Auditor is Supposed
                                	to Do With An Engram
*5811C17     5LACC-16           The Effect of the Environment
                                	on an Engram
 5811C17     5LACC-17           How to Audit an Engram,
                                	Use of an E-meter
 5811C--     5LACC-18           How to Start and Run a Session
 5811C--     5LACC-19           Attitude and Approach
                                	to Auditing
 5811C--     5LACC-20           Summary "Seeing
                                	the Monster"
 5901C03     SC-2               Engrams and Clearing

                1007

*5901C03     SC-3               Preliminary to Engram
                                	Running
 5901C04     SC-4               Engram Running
*5901C30     21ACC-5            The Grouper
*5904C09     SHPA-7             What Can Be Done With
                                	The Mind
*5904C14     SHPA-8             Mechanisms of the Mind
*5904C16     SHPA-12            The Logics and Axioms of
                                	Dianetics and Scientology
*5904C23     SHPA-19            Uses of the E-meter in
                                	Locating Engrams
 5904C30     SHPA-25            Electronic Phenomena of
                                	the Mind
*5907C05     TCC-4              Survive and Succumb
 5911C09     1MACC-2            Demonstration of an Assist
 5911C12     1MACC-7            The Role of the Weak Valence
 5911C24     1MACC-24           Demo: Turning on Pictures
*5911C26     1MACC-27           The Constancy of
                                	Fundamentals of
                                    Dianetics
                                    and Scientology
*6012C31     AHMC-1             The Genus of Dianetics
                                	and Scientology
*6101C01     AHMC-4             Dianetics 1961 and The Whole
                                	Answer To The Problems
                                    of the Mind
*6101C04     22ACC-5            What a Reactive Bank Is
 6101C05     22ACC-7            Dianetics and Present Time
                                	Problems
 6101C06     22ACC-9            Dianetic Assists and
                                	Pre-Session 38
*6101C21     ACSA-2             The Parts of the Mind
*6101C21     ACSA-3             Aberration and the Handling of
 6102C09     3SA ACC-11         Mental Healing: Sanity
                                	and Insanity
*6201C01     CHC-7              The Valence, How It Works
*6305C16     SHSpec-265         The Time Track
*6306C11     SHSpec-272         Engram Chain Running
 6306C20     SHSpec-277         History of Psychotherapy
*6306C26     SHSpec-279         TVD-22 Listing Assessment
                                	for Engram
                                    Running
*6306C27     SHSpec-280         TVD-23 Listing Assessment
                                	for Engram
                                    Running
*6307C10     SHSpec-282         Auditing Skill for R3R

                1008

*6307C10     SHSpec-284A        Preliminary Steps of R3R,
                                	Part 1
*6307C10     SHSpec-284B        Preliminary Steps of R3R,
                                	Part 2
*6307C16     SHSpec-285         Tips on Running R3R
*6407C28     SHSpec-31          Campaign to Handle
                                	Psychosomatic Ills
*6607C21     SHSpec-70          Dianetic Auditing
*6607C28     SHSpec-72          Dianetic Auditing and the Mind
*6608C04     SHSpec-74          Dianetics Scientology
                                	and Society
*6905C29     SD Spec-1          The Dianetic Program

~Editor's Note:~ Those Dianetic tapes with an asterisk (*) alongside
tape numbers are available ~now~ from Scientology Publications
Organization Denmark, Jernbanegade 6, 1608 Copenhagen V, Denmark. (See
the back of the book for prices on individual tapes, or on tape sets.)
Those without an asterisk aren't available at this time. They'll be
available in the future. Watch for an announcement of their impending
release from Scientology Publications Organization Denmark, and be sure
to get them.


                ABBREVIATIONS LIST

ACC             Advanced Clinical Course
AESP            Attitudes, emotions, sensations, pains
ARCU            Affinity, reality, communication,
                	understanding
ARC-X           ARC break
CDEINR          Curious, desired, enforce, inhibit, no, refuse
ARF             Auditor's report form
BIs             Bad indicators
BD              Blowdown
BER             Bad exam report
BPC             By-passed charge
C&A             Certificates and awards
CC              Clearing Course
CL              Class (level)
Class Chart     Classification chart
Cog             Cognition
Comm Cycle      Communication cycle
C/S             Case supervisor, case supervision
DAC             Dianetic Auditor's Course
Demo            Demonstration
DCG             Dianetic Counselling Group
DFT             Dianetic flow table
D of P          Director of Processing
DN              Dianetics
DN              Dirty Needle
DR              Dirty Read
DYN             Dynamics
E/S             Earlier similar
E/P             End phenomena
E/O             Ethics Officer
EXT             Exterior or exteriorization
EXT RD          Exteriorization/Interiorization Rundown
F               Fall, flow
HAV             Havingness
FDA             Food and Drug Administration
FES             Folder Error Summary
FS              Folder Summary

                1010

FL               Flow
F/N              Floating needle
FFD              Full Flow Dianetics
FFT              Full Flow Table
GAE              Gross Auditing Error
GF               Green form
GI               Good indicators
GR               Grade
Grade Chart      Gradation chart
HF               Health form
HE&R             Human emotion and reaction
HCA              Hubbard Certified Auditor
HCO Area Sec     Hubbard Communications Office Area
                 	Secretary
HCOB             Hubbard Communications Office Bulletin
HDC              Hubbard Dianetic Counselor
HDG              Hubbard Dianetic Graduate
HGC              Hubbard Guidance Center
HPA              Hubbard Professional Auditor
HQS              Hubbard Qualified Scientologist
Inval            Invalidation
LF               Long fall
LFBD             Long fall blow down
L&N              Listing and nulling
LRH              L. Ron Hubbard
Mo               Medical officer
MWH (M/W/H)      Missed withhold
O/R              Overrun
OT               Operating thetan
PN               Pain
PC               Preclear
PE Director      Personal efficiency director
PR               Public relations
Pro              Professional
PTP              Present time problem
PSEA             Pains, sensations, emotions, attitudes
PT               Present time
PTS              Potential trouble source
Q&A              Question and Answer
R2-12            A high level goals type of process

                1011

R2-12A           An upper level goals process
R3R              Routine 3 Revised
REHAB            Rehabilitate/rehabilitation
Restim           Restimulation
RR (R/R)         Rocket read
RS (R/S)         Rock slam
R/S item         Rock slam item
RUDS             Rudiments
SCN              Scientology
SF               Small Fall
SH               Saint Hill
SHSBC            Saint Hill Special Briefing Course
SOM              Somatic
SP               Suppressive person
SUPP             Suppress
TECH             Technology or technical
TA               Tone Arm or Tone arm action
TR               Training Routine
2WC              Two-way communication
VGI              Very good indicators
W/H              Withhold
XDn              Expanded dianetics
EXDN             Expanded dianetics


                GLOSSARY

                A

Aberration
is a departure from rational thought or behavior. From the Latin,
~aberrare~, to wander from, Latin ~ab~, away, ~errare~, to wander. It
means basically to err, to make mistakes, or more specifically to have
fixed ideas which are not true. The word is also used in its scientific
sense. It means departure from a straight line. If a line should go from
A to B, then if it is "aberrated" it would go from A to some other
point, to some other point, to some other point, to some other point, to
some other point, and finally arrive at B. Taken in its scientific
sense, it would also mean the lack of straightness or to see crookedly.
As an example, a man sees a horse but thinks he sees an elephant.
~Aberrated~ conduct would be wrong conduct, or conduct not supported by
reason. When a person has engrams, these tend to deflect what would be
his normal ability which then would cause an ~aberrated~ reaction to
them. ~Aberration~ is opposed to sanity, which would be its opposite.
~Aberee~ is sometimes used in Dianetics to designate an aberrated
person.

Academy
In a Scientology church, that area of the Technical Division in which
courses and training are delivered.

Additive
a thing which has been added. This usually has a bad meaning in that an
~additive~ is said to be something needless or harmful which has been
done in addition to standard procedure. ~Additive~ normally means a
departure from standard procedure. For example, an auditor puts
different or additional words into a standard process or command. It
means a twist on standard procedure. In common English, it might mean a
substance put into a compound to improve its qualities or suppress
undesirable qualities. In Dianetics and Scientology, it definitely means
to ~add~ something to the technology or procedure resulting in
undesirable results.

Admin (Administration)
A contraction or shortening of the word ~administration~. ~Admin~ is
used as a noun to denote the actions involved in ~administrating~ an
organization. The clerical and executive decisions, actions and duties
necessary to the running of an organization such as originating and
answering mail, typing, filing, dispatching, applying policy, and all
those actions, large and small which make up an organization. ~ADMIN~ is
also used to denote the action or fact of keeping auditor's reports,
summary reports, worksheets and other records related to an auditing
session. "He kept good ~admin~" meaning that his summary report,
auditor's report and worksheets were neat, exactly on pattern, in proper
sequence and easily understood, as well as complete.

Affinity
Degree of liking or affection or lack of it. Affinity is a tolerance of
distance. A great affinity would be a tolerance of or liking of close
proximity. A lack of affinity would be an intolerance of or dislike of
close proximity. Affinity is one of the components of understanding; the
other components being reality and communication.

                1014

Ally
is a person from whom sympathy came when the preclear was ill or
injured. If the ally came to the preclear's defense or his words and/or
actions were aligned with the individual's survival, the reactive mind
gives that ally the status of always being right--especially if this
ally was obtained during a highly painful engram.

Alter-is
To change or falsify the way something actually is.

Analytical
means capable of resolving, such as problems, situations. The
~analytical~ mind would be the conscious aware mind which thinks,
observes data, remembers it and resolves problems. It would be
essentially the conscious mind as opposed to the unconscious mind. In
Dianetics and Scientology the ~analytical~ mind is the one which is
alert and aware and the reactive mind simply reacts without ~analysis~.
The word ~analytical~ is from the Greek, ~analysis~, meaning resolve,
undo, loosen, which is to say take something to pieces to see what it is
made of. This is one of those examples of the shortcomings of the
English language since no dictionary gives the word ~analytical~ any
connection with thinking, reasoning, perceiving, which in essence is
what it would have to mean, even in English.

Anaten
An abbreviation of "analytical attenuation," meaning diminution or
weakening of the analytical awareness of an individual for a brief or
extensive period of time. If sufficiently great, it can result in
unconsciousness. It stems from the restimulation of an engram which
contains pain and unconsciousness.

ARC
A word made from the initial letters of Affinity, Reality and
Communication which together equate to understanding. Pronounced as
three letters A-R-C.

ARC Break: ARC brk.
A sudden drop or cutting of one's affinity, reality or communication
with someone or something. It is pronounced by its letters ~A-R-C
break~.

ARC break assessment
Reading a prepared auditing list appropriate to the activity to the pc
on a meter and doing nothing but locating and then indicating the charge
found to the pc.

ARCU CDEINR
Stands for affinity, reality, communication, understanding, curious,
desired, enforced, inhibited, no and refused. These are the points
assessed by an auditor on the meter when handling an ARC break.

As-is/As-ising
To view anything exactly as it is, without any distortions or lies, at
which moment it will vanish and cease to exist.

Assess
To Choose, from a list of statements which item or thing has the longest
read and the pc's interest. The longest read usually will also have the
pc's interest.

Assessment
is done by the auditor between the pc's bank and the meter. There is no
need in assessing to look at the pc. Just note which item has the
longest fall or blowdown. The auditor looks at the meter while doing an
assessment. Also the action of an auditor reading down a list to find
out which item on the list reacts more than the other items on the list,
using an E-meter; and so choose which item to handle.

                1015

Assist
An action undertaken by a minister to assist the spirit to confront
physical difficulties.

Attention unit
Could be considered a theta energy quantity of awareness existing in the
mind in varying quantity from person to person. This would be the theta
endowment of the individual; attention units are what he enjoys with,
thinks with and works with. See also theta.

Auditing
Processing, the application of Dianetic or Scientology processes and
procedures to someone by a trained auditor. The exact definition of
auditing is: the action of asking a preclear a question (which he can
understand and answer), getting an answer to that question and
acknowledging him for that answer.

Auditor
A person trained and qualified in applying Dianetics and/or Scientology
processes and procedures to individuals for their betterment; called an
auditor because auditor means "one who listens." An auditor is a
minister of the Church of Scientology.

Auditor's Code
The technical code of Dianetic and Scientology auditors; a list of
"do's" and "don'ts" which experience has shown ensure optimum progress
in auditing a case; the governing set of rules for the general activity
of auditing.

Auditor's C/S
A sheet on which the auditor writes the case supervision instructions
for the next session.

Auditor's Report Form
Is made out at the end of each session and is an outline of what actions
were taken during the session.

Automatic bank
When a preclear gets picture after picture after picture all out of
control. This occurs when one isn't following an assessed somatic or
complaint or has chosen the wrong one or one which the preclear is not
ready to confront or by overwhelming the preclear with rough TRs or
going very non-standard in session. Some preclears turn up in their
first session with automatic banks. The thing to do is carefully assess
the physical complaint for longest or best read and gently handle ~that~
chain well.

Automaticity
Scientology term for something one is doing but is unaware or only
partially aware be is doing; something the preclear has "on automatic."

Axioms
Statements of natural laws on the order of those of the physical
sciences.

Axiom 30 (Scientology Axiom)
The general rule of auditing is that anything which is unwanted and yet
persists must be thoroughly viewed, at which time it will vanish.

Axiom 32 (Scientology Axiom)
Anything which is not directly observed tends to persist.

Axiom 51 (Scientology Axiom)
Postulates and live communication not being mest and being senior to
mest can accomplish change in mest without bringing about a persistence
of mest. Thus auditing can occur.

                1016

                B

Bad indicators (Bls)
Those observable indications that all is not going well for a preclear.

Bank: Reactive bank; reactive mind; engram bank
The mental image picture collection of the preclear. It comes from
computer technology where all data is in a "bank"; portion of the mind
which contains engrams, secondaries and locks.

Basic
The first incident (engram, lock, overt act) on any chain. The FIRST
experience recorded in mental image pictures of the TYPE of pain,
sensation, discomfort, etc. Every chain has its basic. It is a
PECULIARITY and a FACT that when one gets down to the basic on a chain
(a) it erases and (b) the whole chain vanishes for good. Basic is simply
earliest.

Beingness
The assumption or choosing of a category of identity. Beingness is
assumed by oneself or given to oneself, or is attained. Examples of
beingness would be one's name, one's profession, one's physical
characteristics, one's role in a game--each and all of these could be
called one's beingness. ~Grant beingness:~ To grant life to something;
to permit or allow other people to have beingness.

Bls
See Bad Indicators.

Black field
This is just some part of a mental image picture where the preclear is
looking at blackness. It is part of some lock, secondary or engram. In
Scientology it can occur (rarely) when the pc is exterior, looking at
something black. It responds to R3R.

Black V
A no-responsibility case; a heavily occluded case characterized by
mental pictures consisting of masses of blackness.

Blow
To release charge from; to erase or disappear. Also to depart without
authorization from an area; such a departure.

Blowdown
A tone arm motion to the left (one-tenth of a division or more on the
Tone Arm dial of the E-meter), made to keep the needle on the dial.

Body
The organized physical composition or substance of an animal or man
whether living or dead. It can also mean a grouping or gathering, or any
whole of anything.

Book One
Considered by Dianeticists and Scientologists to be the book
~DIANETICS: The Modern Science of Mental Health~.

Bouncers
Material (matter, energy, space and time in the form of effort, force,
mass, delusion etc.) or command phrases that throw the pc backward,
forward, up or down from the time track and so makes it apparently
unavailable.

Bull-baiting
In coaching certain drills the coach attempts to find certain actions,
words, phrases, mannerisms or subjects that cause the student

                1017

auditor doing the drill to become distracted from the drill by reacting
to the coach. As a bullfighter attempts to attract the bull's attention
and control the bull, so does the coach attempt to attract and control
the student auditor's attention; however the coach flunks the student
auditor whenever he succeeds in distracting the student from the drill
and then repeats the action until it no longer has any effect on the
student.

Bulletin
In the text bulletin refers to Hubbard Communications Office Bulletins.
See technical bulletin.

Button
Items, words, phrases, subjects or areas that are easily restimulatable
in an individual by the words or actions of other people, and which
cause him discomfort, embarrassment or upset, or make him laugh
uncontrollably. This term is also used to refer to specific words or
phrases (such as "invalidate" or "suppress") used in auditing, because
when the auditor says it to the pc (pushes it) he can get a meter
reaction.

Bypassed Charge
When a person receives a lock, a lower earlier incident restimulates.
That is bypassed charge. It isn't the auditor bypassing it. One handled
later charge that restimulated earlier charge. That is bypassed charge
and that is all the term means, earlier charge restimulated and not seen
would be another name for it.

                C

Case
The way a person responds to the world around him by reason of his
aberrations.

Case gain
The improvements and resurgences a person experiences from auditing and
training; any case betterment according to the pc.

Case Progress Sheet
is a sheet which details the Levels of processing and training the pc
has achieved while moving up the Grade Chart. It also lists incidental
rundowns and set-up actions the pc has had. The sheet gives at a glance
the pc's progress to OT.

Case Supervision: C/S
The inspection of auditing, by a qualified Case Supervisor (using
auditor reports, session worksheets and examiner reports); the ordering
of standard actions and remedies to ensure maximum gains for the
preclear. The written instructions of a case supervisor.

Caved in
a slang term meaning mentally overwhelmed.

Certs and Awards (Certificates and Awards)
The section of a Scientology church which issues certificates and awards
for the successful completion of courses and auditing cycles. It is
located in the Qualifications Division of a Scientology church.

Chain
A series of incidents of similar nature or similar subject matter.

Chain of incidents
A whole adventure or activity related by the same subject, general
location or people, understood to take place in a finite time period,
weeks, months, years or even billions or trillions of years.

                1018

Charge
The stored quantities of energy in the time track; stored energy or
stored or recreateable potentials of energy. The electrical impulse on
the case that activates the meter. Harmful energy or force accumulated
and generated in the reactive mind, resulting from the conflicts and
unpleasant experiences that a person has had.

Chart of Attitudes
A chart which contains the major difficulties people have. It shows the
attitudes towards life taken by people, and comes with the book ~Science
of Survival~ by L. Ron Hubbard.

Chart of Human Evaluation
A chart organized in very early 1951 by L. Ron Hubbard. It has various
columns and gives behavior characteristics. It is plotted out
mathematically on the basis of ARC; a very good chart to use in order to
predict people. (See ~Science of Survival~ by L. Ron Hubbard.)

Check:
V word has been cleared with the pc.

Checklist
A list of actions or inspections to ready an activity or machinery or
object for use or estimate the needful repairs or corrections. This is
erroneously sometimes called a "checksheet," but that word is reserved
for study steps.

Checkout
The action of verifying a student's knowledge of an item given on a
checksheet.

Checksheet
A list of materials, often divided into sections, that give the theory
and practical steps which, when completed, give one a study completion.
The items are selected to add up to the required knowledge of the
subject. They are arranged in the sequence necessary to a gradient of
increasing knowledge of the subject. After each item there is a place
for the initial of the student or the person checking the student out.
When the checksheet is fully initialed it is complete, meaning the
student may now take an examination and be granted the award for
completion. Some checksheets are required to be gone through twice
before completion is granted.

Circuit
is a part of an individual's bank that behaves as though it were someone
or something separate from him and either dictates or takes over his
actions. (Circuits are the result of engramic commands.)

Class (Level)
    Class 0         (Level 0)         Communication
    Class I         (Level I)         Problems
    Class II        (Level II)        Overts/Withholds
    Class III       (Level III)       ARC Breaks
    Class IV        (Level IV)        Service Facsimilies
    Class V         (Level V)         Expert Auditing
    Class VI        (Level VI)        The Reactive Mind
    Class VII       (Level VII)       Power Processing
    Class VIII      (Level VIII)      Case supervision of all
                                      levels

Class Chart
see Classification, also Gradation Chart.

                1019

Classification: Class
An award earned by an auditor that entitles him to audit certain levels
of processes, and that shows that he has attained the ability and skill
to do so by actual test.

Clay Demo
Abbreviation for clay demonstration. A Scientology study technique
whereby the student demonstrates definitions, principles, etc. in clay
to obtain greater understanding by translating significance into actual
mass.

Cleaning a Clean
Demanding more than is there.

Clean needle
One which flows, produces no pattern or erratic motions of the smallest
kind with the auditor sitting looking at it and doing nothing.

Clearing
Training and processing of an individual to bring him to the state of
Clear.

Clearing Course
The course taught at an Advanced Church of Scientology which covers the
materials necessary for a preclear to attain the state of Clear.

Clear read
The tone arm reading on the E-meter on a body of 2.0 for females and 3.0
for males.

Clear
A thetan who can be at cause knowingly and at will over mental matter,
energy, space and time as regards the First Dynamic (survival for self).
The state of Clear is above the release grades of Scientology (all of
which are requisite to Clearing) and is attained by completion of the
Clearing Course at an Advanced Church of Scientology.

Coaching
Training intensively by instruction, demonstration and practice. In
training drills, one twin is made the coach and the other the student.
The coach, in his coaching actions, coaches the student to achieve the
purpose of the drill. He coaches with reality and intention following
exactly the materials pertaining to the drill to get the student through
it. When this is achieved the roles are then reversed--the student
becoming the coach and the coach becoming the student.

Co-auditing
An abbreviation for co-operative auditing. It means a team of two people
who are using Dianetics or Scientology processes to help each other
reach a better life.

Co-auditor
See co-auditing.

Cognition
A pc origination indicating he has "come to realize." It's a "What do
you know? I . . ." statement. A new realization of life. It results in a
higher degree of awareness and consequently a greater ability to succeed
with one's endeavors in life.

Comm Formula
See communication.

Committee of Evidence
An ethics action convened on a person by a Scientology Ethics Officer on
matters of any crime or high crime, per the policies of the Churches of
Scientology.

                1020

Comm lag: (Communication Lag)
The length of time between the asking of the question by the auditor and
the answering of that exact question by the preclear.

Communication
The interchange of ideas or objects between two people or terminals.
More precisely the definition of communication is the consideration and
action of impelling an impulse or particle from source point across a
distance to receipt point, with the intention of bringing into being at
the receipt point a duplication of that which emanated from the source
point. The formula of communication is: cause, distance, effect, with
attention and duplication. Communication by definition does not need to
be two-way. Communication is one of the component parts of
understanding.

Communication, Control, Havingness Processes (CCHs)
Processes which bring a person into better control of his body and
surroundings, put him into better communication with his surroundings
and other people, and increase his ability to have things for himself.
They bring him into the present, away from his past problems. CCH stands
for Control, Communication, Havingness.

Communication cycle
A completed communication, including origination of the communication,
receipt of the communication, and answer or acknowledgement of the
communication. A communication cycle consists of just: cause, distance,
effect, with intention, attention, duplication and understanding.

Completion
A "completion" is the completing of a specific course or an auditing
grade, meaning it has been started, worked through and has successfully
ended with an award in Qual.

Computation
technically is that abberrated evaluation and postulate that one must be
consistently in a certain state in order to succeed.

Confront
To face without flinching or avoiding. Confronting is actually the
ability to be there comfortably and perceive.

Contact assist
A process which can be self-administered in which an injured body part
is brought into contact with whatever caused the injury in as nearly as
possible the same position and circumstances as it originally occurred
(excepting only unheating hot objects, or turning off electricity, etc.)

Control
The ability to start, change and stop things at one's own choice. (With
processing a person is capable of controlling a wider and wider sphere
of things).

Correction list
is a list of prepared questions on a mimeod sheet which is used by the
auditor for the repair of a particular situation, action, or rundown.

Court of Ethics
An ethics action convened on a person by a Scientology Ethics Officer on
matters of any misdemeanor or any crime, per the policies of the
Churches of Scientology.

Cramming
A section in the Qualifications Division of a Scientology Church where a
student is given high-pressure instruction at his own cost after being

                1021

found slow in study or when failing his examinations. In this section
auditors and case supervisors are handled with special corrective
instruction if they make errors when auditing or case supervising.

Cramming officer
That person in the Qual Division who trains students or auditors on
materials they have missed. This includes trained auditors who wish to
be brought up to date on current technical developments.

C/S 1
An action done by an auditor based on standard case supervision
instructions that sets up a preclear to run Dianetics.

C/S 53RH
The basic prepared list used in Scientology to get the Tone Arm up or
down into normal range.

                D

Dear Alice
Nickname for the book "Alice in Wonderland."

Demo Kit: Demonstration Kit
A bunch of rubber bands, batteries, fuses, corks, caps, paper clips,
coins or whatever, will do. These are kept in a box or container
(tobacco tins or dairy cartons are good). These are used to demonstrate
ideas with material objects and so increase understanding of the idea.

Denyer
That which obscures a part of track by implying it is not there or
elsewhere (a misdirector) or should not be viewed.

Destimulation
The action of deleting the moments of restimulation of the reactive mind
or some portion of it, so that it moves away from the preclear and he is
no longer connected to it.

Dianetic Assessment list
A list of somatic items given by a pc and written down by the auditor
with the reads marked that occur on the meter.

Dianetic Assist
"Running out" (using Dianetic R3R) the physically painful experience the
person has just undergone, accident, illness, operation or emotional
shock. This erases the "psychic trauma" and speeds healing to a
remarkable degree if done properly.

Dianetic Case Completion
A preclear whose Dianetic auditing is complete--a well and happy human
being.

Dianetic Counseling Group
A group of people who have banded together to form a Dianetic group with
the purpose of creating an environment of well and happy beings who,
being freed from bodily considerations and the present time problem of
the body, can now achieve the Scientology results of a free, powerful
and immortal being.

Dianetic Flow Table
A chronological list of Dianetic items run, from earliest to latest,
with the flows that have been run.

Dianetics
Man's most advanced school of the mind. From the Greek ~dia~, through,
and ~noos~, soul, thus "through soul" or "through thought."

                1022

Director of Processing: D of P
The head of the Department of Processing in the Technical Division of a
Scientology Church. The person who is responsible for having auditors
available and preclears to audit, assignment of preclears to auditors,
scheduling of preclears and sessions. Also responsible for procurement
of auditors.

Dirty Needle: Symbol Dn
An E-meter needle reaction in which the needle moves with a ragged,
jerky, ticking motion. It is not necessarily a large reaction.

Dirty Read: Symbol DR
A more or less instant response of the needle which is agitated by a
major thought. It is an instant tiny (less than a quarter of an inch
agitation of the needle and is in fact a very small cousin of a rock
slam, but is not a rock slam. It does not persist.

Dope off
The phenomena of a person getting tired, sleepy, foggy (as though
doped).

Dramatization: Dramatize
To repeat in action what has happened to one in experience. It's a
replay out of its time period now of something that happened then.

Dub-in
Any unknowingly created mental picture that appears to have been a
record of the physical universe but is in fact only an altered copy of
the time track. Dub-in is of no concern to auditors as it is handled no
differently than any other mental pictures. It is run in Dianetics
exactly the same as any lock, secondary or engram.

Dynamics
The urge, thrust and purpose of life--SURVIVE!--in its eight
manifestations. THE FIRST DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival of self;
THE SECOND DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival through sex, or children.
This dynamic actually has two divisions. The Second Dynamic (a) is the
sexual act itself and Second Dynamic (b) is the family unit, including
the rearing of children; THE THIRD DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival
through a group of individuals or as a group. Any group or part of an
entire class could be considered to be a part of the Third Dynamic. The
school, the club, the team, the town, the nation are examples of groups;
THE FOURTH DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival through all mankind and
as all mankind; THE FIFTH DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival through
life forms such as animals, birds, insects, fish and vegetation, and is
the urge to survive as these; THE SIXTH DYNAMIC is the urge toward
survival as the physical universe and has as its components matter,
energy, space and time, from which we derive the word MEST; THE SEVENTH
DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival through spirits or as a spirit.
Anything spiritual, with or without identity, would come under the
Seventh Dynamic. A sub-heading of this dynamic is ideas and concepts
such as beauty and the desire to survive through these; THE EIGHTH
DYNAMIC is the urge toward survival through a Supreme Being, or more
exactly, Infinity.

                E

8C
A slang term meaning good and effective control of an individual or
group.

                1023

Eight Dynamics
8 dynamics. See dynamics.

E-Meter
Hubbard Electrometer. An electronic instrument for measuring the mental
state and change of state in individuals as an aid to precision and
speed in auditing.
    The Hubbard E-Meter is a religious artifact developed for the
exclusive use of ordained ministers and technological students who are
trained in its use in Church ministrations. It is not intended for and
is forbidden by the Church to be used in any medical or physical
treatment or the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. By
itself it does nothing and is strictly not to be employed for medical or
scientific purposes. Its purpose is to assist the minister to locate in
his parishioner areas of travail so that be can assist in the relief of
spiritual suffering. The existence and use of the E-Meter is sanctioned
by law, and the copying of it or attempts by unqualified persons,
doctors, scientists, psychologists, or psychiatrists, to obtain or use
one are actionable under law in the United States.
    To obtain an E-Meter one must be a sincerely enrolled student of the
Church of Scientology or a fully qualified minister of that church and
must undertake as well to become wholly skilled in its purpose and use.
No other persons are permitted to have E-Meters. The church permits the
E-Meter to be sold, possessed, or owned only under these conditions.

End Phenomena: EP
Those indicators in the pc and meter which show that a chain or process
is ended. It shows in Dianetics that basic on that chain and flow has
been erased. In a well-run Standard Dianetic session the end phenomena
are the more or less rapid sequence of: Floating needle, cognition, very
good indicators, erasure.

Engram
is a mental image picture of an experience containing pain,
unconsciousness, and a real or fancied threat to survival. It is a
recording in the reactive mind of something which actually happened to
an individual in the past and which contained pain and unconsciousness,
both of which are recorded in the mental image picture called an engram.
It must, by definition, have impact or injury as part of its content.
    These engrams are a complete recording, down to the last accurate
detail, of every perception present in a moment of partial or full
unconsiousness.

Entheta
Enturbulated ("en") thought or life ("theta"), especially destructive
communications.

Enturbulated
Stirred up, agitated or turbulent.

Enturbulation
When a person's environment has been stirred up, become agitated, or
turbulent.

Erase/Erasure
The action of erasing, (rubbing out) locks, secondaries or engrams.

Ethics
Rationality toward the highest level of survival for the individual, the
future race, the group and mankind. Ethics is reason and the
contemplation of optimum survival.

Ethics Officer
A person who handles ethics in a Scientology church.

                1024

Evaluation: Evaluate, evaluative
Any attempt by someone to impose his data or knowledge upon another. An
example would be someone telling another why he is the way he is instead
of permitting or guiding him to discover it for himself.

Evil purpose: Ev Purp.
Destructive intention.

Examiner: Preclear examiner
The person in a Scientology church to whom preclears are sent
immediately after any auditing session. The examiner says nothing to the
preclear in this situation, noting only what the pc's tone arm position
and state of the needle are on the E-meter and recording what the pc
says if anything. The Examiner is also the person a preclear sees if he
wishes to make any sort of statement regarding his case, or if there is
something he wants handled regarding his case.

Exam Report
The report made out by the Qual examiner when the pc goes to exams after
sessions or goes on his own volition. It contains the meter details,
pc's indicators and the pc's statement.

Exterior: Exteriorized
The state of the thetan being outside the body, with or without full
perception.

Exteriorization
The act of moving out of the body with or without full perception.
Becoming exterior.

Exteriorization Rundown
See Interiorization rundown.

Ext-Int: Exteriorization-Interiorization
See Interiorization rundown.

                F

F1: Flow one
another doing something to self.

F2: Flow two
doing something to another.

F3: Flow three
others doing things to others.

Facsimile
~Any~ mental image picture that is unknowingly created and part of the
time track, whether an engram, secondary, lock or pleasure moment.

Fall: Symbol F
An E-meter needle read in which the needle moves rapidly to the right
from one to two inches.

Firefight
The action of a quarrel between an auditor and a pc.

Flash answer
Instantaneous reply, the first thing that flashes into the preclear's
mind at the snap of the auditor's fingers upon asking a question.

Flat
No longer producing change or a reaction. Or, in Dianetics, referring to
an engram, erased.

Flatten
To continue to do (something) until it no longer produces a reaction.
Flatten a process: To continue a process as long as it produces change
and no longer. In Dianetic auditing it is to continue running a chain of
incidents until basic on that chain is reached and erased. With CCHs, it
is three commands of equal comm lag with the pc doing the process.

                1025

Floating Needle: Symbol F/N
Free needle. The idle uninfluenced movement of the needle on the E-meter
dial without any pattern or reactions in it. It can be as small as
1-inch or as large as dial wide. It does not fall or drop to the right
of the dial. It moves to the left at the same speed as it moves to the
right.
    It is observed on an E-meter calibrated with the tone arm between
2.0 and 3.0 with good indicators in on the pc. It can occur after a
cognition, blowdown of the tone arm, or just moves into floating. The pc
may or may not voice the cognition.

Floating TA
The pc is so released the needle can't be gotten onto the dial. The
needle is swinging wider than the meter dial both ways from center and
appears to lay first on one side and then the other. The tone arm can't
be moved fast enough to keep the extreme floating needle on the dial.

Flow
Impulse or direction of thought, energy or action between terminals.

Flow lines
Refers to the administrative lines of an organization which facilitate
the delivery of auditing and training.

Fly a Rud: Fly a rudiment
The auditor must get a free needle (floating needle) on one of the
rudiment questions (ARC Breaks, PTPs, missed withholds.)

Folder
A folder sheet of cardboard which encloses all the session reports and
other items. The folder is foolscap size, light card, usually blue or
green in color.

Folder Error Summary
A summary of auditing errors in a folder and on a pc's case not
corrected at the time the summary is done.

Folder Summary
Sheets located inside the front cover of a pc folder giving an adequate
summary of actions taken on a pc in consecutive order.

Free Needle
See floating needle.

Free track
That part of the time track that is free of pain and misadventure, in
that the pc doesn't freeze up on it.

Full Flow Dianetics
This is the running of all three flows in Dianetics, another to self,
self to another, and another to another, on a preclear.

Full Flow Table
See Dianetic flow table.

                G

GF M5: Green Form Method 5
This means assessing of the Green Form by an auditor once through
marking the length and blowdown of all reads as they occur when the
questions are asked of the pc. Those questions which read are then
handled one at a time in order from the largest read to the smallest.

GR 40: Green Form 40
This is item number 40 on the green form and is a special prepared list
of items with specific actions to be done for each item.

                1026

Good indicators
Those observable indications that all is going well for a preclear. The
pc is bright, happy and winning. Pc smiling and happy.

Gradation Chart: Grade Chart
This chart shows all the levels of Dianetic and Scientology auditing and
training. It is the map of the road to total freedom.

Grade
A series of processes culminating in an exact ability attained,
examined, and attested to by the pc.

Grades, Scientology
A series of steps or levels in which a preclear regains specific
abilities and loses specific inabilities on a gradient to becoming
clear. They are achieved with Scientology auditing. See also release.

Grade 0        Zero         Communication release
Grade I        One          Problems release
Grade II       Two          Relief release
Grade III      Three        Freedom release
Grade IV       Four         Ability release
Grade V        Five         Power release
Grade VI       Six          Whole track release

Gradient
Something that starts out simple and gets more and more complex. The
essence of a gradient is just being able to do a little bit more and a
little bit more and a little bit more until you finally make the grade.

Green Form
A standard form used in Scientology Review auditing.

Grinding: Grinding out
Going over and over and over a lock, secondary or engram without
obtaining an actual erasure. The sense of the word comes from the action
of using an emery wheel on a hard substance with it not getting much
smaller or thinner no matter how long it is done.

Grouper
Is anything which pulls the time track into a bunch at one or more
points. When the grouper is gone the time track is perceived to be
straight.

Gungho Group
Gung-ho means "pull together" in mandarin. It pulls together other
groups in the community to work towards the betterment of society and of
the area. The groups program works on the motto: a community that pulls
together can make a better society for all.

                H

Hand space mimicry
A CCH process.

Hat
Slang term for the work and title of one's post in a Scientology church
(derived from railroad use of distinctively different hats to indicate
different jobs.)

Havingness
The concept of being able to reach. Owning, possessing, experiencing.
Affinity, reality, communication with the environment.

Health Form
A standard form used by a Standard Dianetics auditor for finding what is
troubling or bothering the preclear so that it may be handled with
Dianetic auditing.

                1027

Hidden standard
A problem a person thinks must be resolved before auditing can be seen
to have worked. It's a standard by which to judge Scientology or
auditing or the auditor. This hidden standard is always an old problem
of long duration. It is a postulate counter-postulate situation--the
source of the counter postulate was suppressive to the pc.

High TA
Tone arm reading above 3.5 on the tone arm dial.

Hubbard Apprentice Scientologist
A graduate of the Hubbard Apprentice Scientologist Course, a course in
communication and control.

Hubbard Dianetic Counselor: HDC
A graduate of the Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course.

Hubbard Dianetic Graduate: HDG
A person who is qualified to supervise a Hubbard Standard Dianetics
Course by having done the Dianetic supervisor course in addition to the
Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course.

Hubbard Guidance Center: HGC
That branch of the Technical Division of a Scientology church which
delivers auditing to preclears.

Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course: HSDC
The course that teaches a person standard Dianetics. This course is
given in Scientology Churches and missions.

                I

Implant
A painful and forceful means of overwhelming a being with artificial
purposes or false concepts in a malicious attempt to control and
suppress him.

Implanter
One who implants. See Implant.

In
Things which should be there and are or should be done and are, are said
to be "in," i.e., "We got scheduling in."

Incident
The recording of an experience, simple or complex, related by the same
subject, location or people understood to take place in a short or
finite time period such as minutes or hours or days.

Indoctrination
To teach a doctrine, belief, or principle to; to teach.

In session
Interested in own case and willing to talk to auditor.

Intensive
A specific number of hours of auditing given to a preclear over a short
period of time, as a series of successive sessions at regularly
scheduled intervals. Twenty-five hours of auditing administered over a
five-day period or occupying 10 evenings would be examples of
intensives.

Interiorization
The action of going in; a thetan becoming interiorized in a body. An
analogy would be stepping through a doorway into a room or getting into
an automobile.

                1028

Interiorization rundown: (Int RD or Int/Ext RD)
A remedy designed to permit the pc to be further audited after he has
gone exterior. It is NOT meant as a method of exteriorizing the pc;
formerly known as the Exteriorization Rundown or Ext RD.

Interiorization Rundown Correction List: (Int RD Corr. List)
A prepared list used NOT to solve the case but to make interiorization
cease to read and be clean as a subject by isolating the exact outness.
It is used after a pc has had an Int RD and is continuing to have
difficulty with interiorization.

Interne
An advanced graduate or recent graduate of an auditing level who is
auditing to get practical experience under professional supervision.

Internship
Apprenticeship served by an Interne.

Invalidation
A refuting or degrading or discrediting or denying something someone
else considers to be a fact.

Invisible field
This is just a part of some lock, secondary or engram that is
"invisible." It, like a black field, responds to R3R.

Is-ness
Something that is persisting on a continuum.

Item
Any one of a list of things, people, ideas, significances, purposes,
etc., given by a preclear to an auditor while listing; any separate
thing or article; in particular, one placed on a list by a pc.

Itsa
A term contracted from "It is a"; a term for a pc's action of answering
an auditor's question in which the pc positively identifies something
with certainty.

Itsa-maker line
Communication line from the preclear to his own bank. Is where pc is
inspecting his bank and where he is somewhat introverted.

                K

Key in
The action of recording a lock on a secondary or engram; the moment an
earlier upset or earlier incident has been restimulated.

Key out
An action of an engram or secondary dropping away without being erased.
Released or separate from one's reactive mind or some portion of it.

Know-to-Mystery Scale
The scale of affinity from Knowingness, down through Lookingness,
Emotingness, Effortingness, Thinkingness, Symbolizingness, Eatingness,
Sexingness, and so through to Not-knowingness to Mystery.

                L

L3RD
A prepared list used for locating and handling all errors and trouble in
R3R sessions.

                1029

L4BR
A prepared list used in Scientology for handling all listing errors,
when trouble occurs on a listing process, when TA goes high or pc gets
sick or upset after a session which included listing actions.

Latent read
If (the needle) doesn't fall or react for a second or more (after the
question is asked) and then reacts. This is a latent read.

List
Items said by the preclear in response to a listing question from the
auditor, which have been written down by the auditor in the exact
sequence that they were given to him by the preclear.

Listing
A special Scientology procedure used in some processes where the auditor
writes down items said by the preclear in response to a question by the
auditor, in the exact sequence that they are given to him by the
preclear.

Listing and Nulling: L & N
A Scientology procedure in auditing done according to very exact rules
as given in the Laws of Listing and Nulling. This is Scientology Level
III technology and is not related to or in any way similar to a Dianetic
assessment.

Locational processing
Processing which establishes a stability in the environment of the
preclear on the subject of objects and people. It can be run in busy
thoroughfares, parks, confused traffic or anywhere that there is or is
not motion of objects and people. It is used in the auditing room itself
to orient the preclear.

Lock
A mental image picture of an incident where one was knowingly or
unknowingly reminded of a secondary or engram. It does not itself
contain a blow or a burn or impact and is not any major cause of
misemotion. It does not contain unconsciousness. It may contain a
feeling of pain or illness, etc., but is not itself the source of it.
    A lock is a mental image picture of a nonpainful but disturbing
experience the person has experienced and which depends for its force on
an earlier secondary and engram which the experience has restimulated.

Long Fall: Symbol LF.
An E-meter needle reaction in which the needle moves rapidly to the righ
t from two to three inches.

Long Fall Blowdown: Symbol LFBD.
An E-meter reaction in which the needle moves rapidly to the right and
requires that the tone arm be adjusted in order for the needle to remain
on the needle dial.

Low TA
Tone Arm reading below 2.0 on the tone arm dial.

                M

Machine
An actual machine in the mind (like ordinary machinery) constructed out
of mental mass and energy, that has been made by the individual to do
work for him, usually having been set up so as to come into operation
automatically under certain pre-determined circumstances.

Mark V E-meter
A type of modern E-meter used in auditing today.

                1030

Mass
A composition of matter and energy existing in the physical universe.
Mental mass is contained in mental image pictures.

Medical Officer
A person in a Scientology church who has the job of increasing the
number of staff declared in good health and keeping the environment,
health and hygiene standards high and maintaining a liaison between the
church and the medical practitioner.

Mental image pictures
Mental pictures; facsimiles and mock-ups; a copy of one's perceptions of
the physical universe sometime in the past.

Mental Mass
Mocking up matter, energy, space and time. Its proportionate weight
would be terribly slight compared to the real object which the person is
mocking up a picture of.

MEST
Word coined from the initial letters of Matter, Energy, Space and Time;
the physical universe and its component parts; also used as an adjective
in the same sense to mean physical, as in "MEST universe," meaning
"physical universe."

Method 3
An assessment in which each reading question is taken up and handled
with the preclear when it is seen to read before continuing the
assessment.

Method 5
Assessing a prepared list once through marking the length and blowdown
of all reads as they occur when the questions are asked of the pc. Those
questions which read are then handled one at a time in order from the
largest read to the smallest.

Mind
A control system between the thetan and the physical universe. It is not
the brain. The mind is the accumulated recordings of thoughts,
conclusions, decisions, observations and perceptions of a thetan
throughout his entire existence. The thetan can and does use the mind in
handling life and the physical universe.

Misemotion
Anything that is unpleasant emotion such as antagonism, anger, fear,
grief, apathy or a death feeling; mis-aligned emotion, irrational or
inappropriate emotion. Misemotion is also emotion which has been
suppressed and which remains part of the individual's locks and
secondaries unless he is audited.

Missed Withhold
An undisclosed contra-survival act which has been restimulated by
another but not disclosed. This is a withhold which another person
nearly found out about, leaving the person with the withhold in a state
of wondering whether his hidden deed is known or not.

Mission
An authorized branch of the Church of Scientology which may run
introductory courses and the Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course and may
deliver auditing up to and including Grade IV if it has the properly
qualified personnel.

Mock-up
Any ~knowingly created~ mental picture that is not part of a time track;
to make a mock-up.

                1031

Model Session
The same exact pattern and script (patter) with which Dianetic and
Scientology sessions are begun and ended.

Motivator
Actions which were directed against the preclear by others or another,
used by him to justify (used as a "motive" for) overts; an aggressive or
destructive act received by the person.

Multiple illness
The preclear is physically uncomfortable or ill from several engrams of
different types all restimulated. One runs one somatic chain at a time,
running each new symptom that is assessed or stated by the preclear.

                N

Narrative chain
A chain of similar ~experiences~ rather than similar somatics. A chain
of incidents of similar description or event. In such a chain there may
be hundreds to millions of such events or incidents. Such chains can be
run in Dianetics but run the risk of being very long without reaching
the basic of the chain; more specifically, a chain in which the
similarity of content is of ~events~ "story" content ("falls
downstairs," "fight with brother").

Narrative Item
One which will land the pc in a single incident for which there is no
chain.

Natter
Criticalness; unnecessarily and ineffectively talking about someone or
something; the word is coined from negative chatter.

Non Interference Zone
Rule The rule that preclears and pre-OTs from Level VI to OT III may not
be audited on anything else but those levels or necessary repair to get
them back on those levels.

Not-is; Not-is-ness, Not-is-ing
The effort to reduce an unwanted condition of existence by force
(breaking something, saying it's not).

Null
To nullify or to reduce the value or effect of something to nothing;
means there was no reaction of the needle on the needle dial of the
E-meter when the auditor had asked a question of the preclear; or simply
it didn't read.

Nulling
The auditor's action in saying items from a list to a preclear and
noting the reaction of the preclear's bank by the use of an E-meter.

Null Item or Null List
An item or list of items which when called out by the auditor as in an
assessment produces no E-meter needle reaction.

                O

Objective Havingness
Scientology processes which increase a preclear's havingness by
increasing his objective duplication.

                1032

Objective Processes
Scientology processes which familiarize a person with his environment,
the physical universe.

Obnosis
A word put together from the phrase, "observing the obvious."

OCA Graph
A specially prepared graph which plots ten traits of a pc's personality
from a personality test taken by the pc. OCA = Oxford Capacity Analysis.
The personality test is also known as the APA = American Personality
Analysis.

Operating Thetan (OT)
A being who can be at cause knowingly and at will over thought, life,
form, matter, energy, space and time, subjective and objective.

Op Pro by Dup
Opening procedure by duplication. A process which increases the
preclear's ability to duplicate and so increases his ability to
communicate.

Original Thesis
A book by L. Ron Hubbard. See Bibliography.

OT Grades
Distinct and definite steps toward greater levels of awareness and
ability as an Operating Thetan. There are seven (VII) OT grades at
present.

Out
Things which should be there and aren't or should be done or aren't are
said to be "out," i.e., "Enrollment books are out."

Out-point
Any one datum that is offered as true that is in fact found to be
illogical.

Out Tech
Out technology; means that Dianetics or Scientology are not being
applied or are not being correctly applied.

Overrun
Continuing to run an auditing action (in error) past the preclear's
attainment of its end phenomena. A person can also be overrun on things
in life outside of auditing. This is doing something too long that has
engrams connected with it which means an engram chain with too many
engrams on it being restimulated by life or auditing. Accumulating
protests and upsets about something until it is just a mass of stops.

Overt
Overt act; an overt is an aggressive or destructive act by the
individual against one or more of the eight dynamics (self, family,
group, mankind, animals or plants, mest, life or the infinite).

Overt-Motivator Sequence
The reactive series of events in which someone who has committed an
overt "has to" claim the existence of motivators (acts by others against
self). Motivators are thus used to justify overts and tend to be used to
justify further overts.

                P

Pain
(in its various forms) is the indication of an engram. Composed of heat,
cold, electrical and the combined effect of sharp hurting. If one stuck
a fork in his arm, be would experience pain. When one uses pain in
connection with auditing one means awareness of heat, cold, electrical
or hurting stemming

                1033

from the reactive mind. According to experiments done at Harvard, if one
were to make a grid with heated tubes going vertically and chilled tubes
going horizontally and were to place a small current of electricity
through the lot, the device touched to a body would produce a feeling of
pain. It need not be composed of anything very hot or cold or of any
high voltage to produce a very intense feeling of pain. Therefore what
we call pain is itself heat, cold and electrical. If a pc experiences
one or more of these from his reactive mind, we say he is experiencing
pain.
    "Electrical" is the bridge between sensation and pain and is
difficult to classify as either pain or sensation when it exists alone.
Its symbol is PN.

Pan-Determinism
Broad determinism; the action of determining not only one's own actions,
but the actions of others as well, especially to determine the
activities of two or more sides of a game simultaneously; to become
pan-determined it is necessary to view a dispute, struggle or game from
both sides.

Pastoral Counseling
Using Dianetics to handle the effect of the spirit on the body.
Dianetics, after examination, treatment, cure and a clean bill of
health, as necessary, by a medical doctor, is used as a tool by the
minister to free a person's attentions from his body so that be is ready
for Scientology. It is thus true pastoral counseling and has a religious
function.

Pc
Preclear.

Pleasure moments
These are mental image pictures containing pleasure sensations. One
seldom addresses them unless the preclear is fixated on some type of
"pleasure" to a point where it has become highly aberrated.

Policy Letter
The published rules and administrative formulas and procedures by which
individuals in an organization agree on action and conduct their
organizational activities. In Scientology churches and missions these
advices are printed in green ink on white paper.

Postulate
A conclusion, decision or resolution made by the individual himself; to
conclude, decide or resolve a problem or to set a pattern for the future
or to nullify a pattern of the past.

Potential Trouble Source
A person who by reason of connection with and the influences of another
person who is a suppressive person, is a "potential trouble source" to
himself or a group and may exhibit characteristics similar to those of
the suppressive person (SP), causing upset to himself and the areas in
which he operates. A person who is PTS may exhibit great gains one day
and then appear to lose them the next, be happy one day and very sad the
next; this being known as "rollercoaster." Before permanent and real
gains can be achieved, the person who is PTS must resolve the situation
with the SP.

Power
Grade V Power Processing. See also Release.

Practical
The drills which permit the student to associate and coordinate theory
with the actual items and objects to which the theory applies. Practical
is ~application~ of what one knows to what one is being taught to
understand, handle and control.

                1034

Preclear
From pre-Clear, a person not yet Clear; generally a person being
audited, who is thus on the Road to Clear; a person who, through
Dianetic and Scientology processing, is finding out more about himself
and life.

Preclear Assessment Sheet: White Form
A form done with new preclears or pcs who haven't been audited for some
time or at the beginning of each intensive, which calls for certain
basic data that is necessary for the Case Supervisor. It is done by an
auditor in session.

Pre-Hav (Havingness) Scale
A scale giving degrees of doingness or not doingness.

Pre-OT
A person, having achieved the state of Clear, now working towards the
state of OT, Operating Thetan.

Prepcheck
A Scientology auditing action in which a subject found to be charged is
discharged by the use of a prepared list of buttons (called the
Prepcheck Buttons).

Present Time
That which is now and which becomes the past almost as rapidly as it is
observed. It is a term that refers to the environment as it exists now,
not as it existed; as in the phrase "the preclear came up to present
time," meaning the preclear became aware of the existing matter, energy,
space and time of now.

Present Time Problem (PTP)
A specific problem that exists in the physical universe ~now~, on which
a person has his attention fixed.

Pressure Somatic
In Dianetics, considered to be a symptom in a lock, secondary or
engrarn, simply part of the content.

Prior Assessment
An assessment done in Dianetics in which a time prior to or earlier than
something which occurred or started later is addressed.

Prior read
Reads which occur prior to the completion of the major thought. (Major
thought is the complete thought being expressed in words by the
auditor.)

Problem (Prob.)
Anything which has opposing sides of equal force; especially
postulate-counter-postulate, intention-counter-intention or
idea-counter-idea; an intention-counter-intention that worries the
preclear.

Process
A question or set of questions or directions used by an auditor in a
session to help a person find out about himself and life.

Processing
See     Auditing.

Product
A finished high-quality service or article in the hands of the consumer
in exchange for a valuable.

Program
A program is the sequence of actions session by session to be undertaken
on a case by the C/S in his directions to the auditor or auditors,
auditing the case.

Psychosomatic
~Psycho~, of course, refers to mind and ~somatic~ refers to body; the
term psychosomatic means the mind making the body ill or illnesses

                1035

which have been created physically within the body by derangement of the
mind.

Public Relations Officer (PRO)
A person in a Dianetic Counseling Group or a Scientology church who has
the job of public relations for the organization, internally and
externally.

                Q

Q and A
Stands for Question and Answer. A failure to complete a cycle of action;
to fail to complete a cycle of action; to deviate from an intended
course of action; questioning the preclear's answer; in auditing, it's a
failure to complete a cycle of action on a preclear.

Qual
The Qualifications Division (Division V of a Scientology church) where
the student is examined and where he may receive cramming or special
assistance and where he is awarded completions and certifications and
where his qualifications as attained on courses or in auditing are made
a permanent record.

Qual Sec
Qualifications Secretary, the head of the Qualifications Division.

Quickie
Means omitting actions for whatever reason that would satisfy all
demands or requirements and doing something less than could be achieved.

                R

R3R
See Routine 3 Revised.

R3R Triple
Dianetic R3R procedure triple flow; another to self, self to another,
and another to another.

Randomity
The ratio of unpredicted motion to predicted motion.

Reach/Withdraw
Basic process in assists or when processing animals, very small children
or people who are extremely ill.

Reactive Bank
See     Reactive Mind, Bank.

Reactive Mind: Reactive bank
The portion of the mind which works on a stimulus-response basis (given
a certain stimulus it will automatically give a certain response) which
is not under a person's volitional control and which exerts force and
power over a person's awareness, purposes, thoughts, body and actions.
It consists of locks, secondaries, engrams and chains of them and is the
single source of human aberration and psychosomatic ills.

Read
The action of the needle on the E-meter dial falling (moving to the
right); SF, F, LF, LFBD are reads.

Reality
The agreed upon apparency of existence. A reality is any data that
agrees with the person's perceptions, computations and education.
Reality is one of the components of understanding. Reality is what ~is~.

                1036

Recall
Present time remembering something that happened in the past. It is
~not~ re-experiencing it, reliving or re-running it. You are in present
time, thinking of, remembering, putting your attention on something that
happened in the past--all done from present time.

Rehabilitation
The restoration of some former ability or state of being or some more
optimum condition.

Release
A preclear whose reactive mind or some major portion of it is keyed out
and is not influencing him. In Scientology processing there are eight
major Grades of Release. They are, from the lowest to the highest: Grade
0 Communications Release, Grade I Problems Release, Grade II Relief
Release, Grade III Freedom Release, Grade IV Ability Release, Grade V
Power Release, Grade VA Power Plus Release, Grade VI Whole Track
Release. Each is a distinct and definite step toward greater levels of
awareness and ability. (See also     Grade).

Repair
Patching up past auditing or recent life errors. This is done by
prepared lists or completing the chain.

Repeater technique
A Dianetic auditing technique given in the book ~Dianetics: The Modern
Science of Mental Health~ (1950) in which the auditor would have the
preclear repeat over and over certain phrases found in engrams being
run.

Resistive Case
See     Seven Resistive Cases.

Restimulate
To cause restimulation.

Restimulation
Condition in which part of the bank has been "triggered" by something in
the person's environment (a restimulator) causing some greater or lesser
degree of reactive behavior or condition; doing something unknowingly,
unwittingly and without any understanding of what one is doing.

Retread
The auditor's weak areas are located and the auditor is word cleared on
the appropriate materials and he then restudies the materials of those
areas.

Reverie
The preclear is placed in a light state of "concentration" which is not
to be confused with hypnosis. The analytical mind of the preclear while
reduced in its potential and under direction, is still capable of
thinking its own thoughts and forming its own opinions.

Review
When a preclear is having difficulty of some sort that is not
immediately resolving with the actions being done, he may be sent to the
Qualifications Division of the local Church where his case folder is
carefully checked over or ~reviewed~ and the necessary corrective
actions taken to resolve the difficulty. The actions done in this manner
are collectively called ~review~.

R-Factor
Reality factor; explanation, information, data, etc., given to a person
in order to bring about sufficient understanding for him to be able to
perform a specific action.

                1037

Ridges
Are solid accumulations of old, inactive energy suspended in space and
time. They are generated by opposing energy flows hitting one another
and continue to exist long after the energy flows have ceased. Ridges
exist in suspension around a person.

Rise
A needle phenomena where the needle moves to the auditor's left (auditor
facing the meter); a rising needle means "no confront"--the preclear has
struck an area or something he isn't confronting. One never calls his
attention to this but one knows what it is.

Rock Slam: Symbol RS
This is a crazy, irregular, jerky motion of the needle of the E-meter,
narrow as one inch or as wide as three inches happening several times a
second. The needle "goes crazy," slamming back and forth, narrowly,
widely, over on the left, over on the right, in a mad war dance or as if
it were frantically trying to escape. It means ~hot terminal~ or ~hot~
anything in an assessment and takes precedence over a fall.

Rollercoaster
See     Potential Trouble Source.

Routine 3 Revised: R3R
Designation for the principal process of Standard Dianetics; technique
for running engrams.

Rudiments
First principles, steps, stages or conditions. The basic actions done at
the beginning of a session to set up the pc for the major session
action; ARC breaks, withholds and PTPs.

Run
Undergo processing; run out; erase.

Rundown (R/D)
A series of specific auditing actions done on a case designed to produce
a specific result.

                S

Sad effect
When an ARC break is permitted to continue over too long a period of
time and remains in restimulation a person goes into a "sad effect"
which is to say they become sad and mournful.

Scientology
Scn. An applied religious philosophy developed by L.Ron Hubbard dealing
with the study of knowledge, which through the application of its
technology can bring about desirable changes in the conditions of life.
(Taken from the Latin word ~scio~, knowing in the fullest sense of the
word, and the Greek word ~logos~, to study.) A religious practice
applying to Man's spirit and his spiritual freedom; the route from human
being to total freedom and total beingness.

Search and Discovery
A Scientology listing process to handle a PTS person. It is not part of
Dianetics.

Sec
Secretary, a senior executive of the Church of Scientology; also
security.

Secondary
A secondary is a mental image picture of a moment of severe and shocking
loss or threat of loss which contains misemotion such as anger, fear,
grief, apathy or "deathfulness." It is a mental image picture recording
of a time of severe mental stress. It may contain unconsciousness.

                1038

Second Dynamic
See     Dynamics.

Self-auditing
The manifestation of going around running concepts or processes on one's
self.

Self Analysis
A book by L. Ron Hubbard; see Bibliography.

Self-Determinism
The ability to regulate and take responsibility for one's own
considerations; motivation by the thetan rather than by the environment.

Sensation
(In its various forms) is the indication of a secondary, which precedes
the actual engram. All uncomfortable perceptions stemming from the
reactive mind are called sensation. These are basically "pressure,"
"motion," "dizziness," "sexual sensation," and "emotion and misemotion."
There are others, definite in themselves but definable in these five
general categories. If one took the fork in the pain definition above
and pressed it against the arm, that would be "pressure." "Motion" is
just that, a feeling of being in motion when one is not. "Motion"
includes the "winds of space," a feeling of being blown upon especially
from in front of the face. "Dizziness" is a feeling of disorientation
and includes a spinniness, as well as an out-of-balance feeling. "Sexual
sensation" means any feeling, pleasant or unpleasant, commonly
experienced during sexual restimulation or action. "Emotion and
misemotion" include all levels of the complete tone scale except "pain";
emotion and misemotion are closely allied to "motion," being only a
finer particle action. A bank solidity is a form of "pressure," and when
the sensation of increasing solidity of masses in the mind occurs, we
say "the bank is beefing up." All these are classified as sensation.
Symbol SEN.

Service Facsimile
Serv Fac, a Scientology term. The service facsimile is that computation
generated by the preclear (not the bank) to make self right and others
wrong; to dominate or escape domination and enhance own survival and
injure that of others.

Session
A precise period of time during which an auditor audits or processes a
preclear.

Seven Resistive Cases
This is item number 40 on the Scientology Green Form (GF 40). It is a
specially prepared list of items with specific actions to be done for
each item, and is used by a Scientology auditor to correct specific case
difficulties of a pc.

Small Fall: Symbol SF
An E-meter needle reaction in which the needle moves rapidly to the
right a quarter to half an inch.

Somatic
Essentially body sensation, illness or pain or discomfort. "Soma" means
body; hence PSYCHO-SOMATIC or pains stemming from the mind. A pain or
ache, sensation and also misemotion or even unconsciousness.
    There are a thousand different descriptive words that could add up
to a ~feeling~. Pain, aches, dizziness, sadness--these are all FEELINGS.
Thus in Dianetics we ASK FOR AND FOLLOW DOWN ONLY FEELINGS.
Those can be aches, pains, sensations, misemotion--any FEELING.
~Somatics:~ This is a general word for uncomfortable perceptions coming
from the reactive mind. Its genus is early Dianetics and it is a
general, common package word, used by Scientologists to denote
"pain" or "sensation" with no difference

                1039

made between them. To understand the source of these feelings, one
should have a knowledge of engrams, ridges and other parts of the
reactive bank. To the Scientologist anything is a SOMATIC if it emanates
from the various part of the reactive mind and produces an awareness of
reactivity. Symbol SOM.

Somatic Chain
A chain in which the similarity of content is of feelings, sensations,
attitudes, pains, emotions. These are the chains run in routine Standard
Dianetics.

Squirrelling
The action of altering Scientology; off-beat practices.

Stable Datum
Any body of knowledge, more particularly and exactly, is built from one
datum. That is its stable datum. Invalidate it and the entire body of
knowledge falls apart. A stable datum does not have to be the correct
one. It is simply the one that keeps things from being in a confusion
and on which others are aligned.

Stage Four
A needle reaction on the E-meter in which the needle rises, sticks,
falls, about once a second or two. It is very regular, always the same
distance, always the same pattern, over and over. It reacts on nothing
the auditor or pc says.

Standard Dianetics
Standard Dianetics technology as developed and refined by L. Ron Hubbard
in 1969; that Dianetic technology which has absolutely no arbitraries;
correct exact duplication of source in application of Dianetics. The
exact processes and auditing actions of Dianetics laid down and used for
the invariable resolution of cases, taught in the Academies and Missions
of Scientology and used without variation by all Hubbard Dianetic
Counselors.

Standard Tech: Standard Technology
That tech which has absolutely no arbitraries; correct exact duplication
of source in application; the exact processes and auditing actions laid
down and used for the invariable resolution of cases, taught in the
Acadamies, Colleges and Advanced Organizations of the Church of
Scientology and used without variation by all Scientology auditors. The
term applies equally to Dianetics and its technology.

Static
A life static has no mass, no motion, no wave length, no location in
space or in time. It has the ability to postulate and to perceive.

Steering the pc
The only use of latent or random reads. You see a read the same as the
instant read occuring again when you are not speaking but after you have
found a whole thought reacting. You say "there" or "that" and the pc,
seeing what he or she is looking at as you say it recovers the knowledge
from the reactive bank.

Sticky needle
See     Dirty needle.

Summary Report Form
Written by the Auditor after the session on a fill-in type standard form
and is simply an exact record of what happened and what was observed
during the session.

Supervisor
The person in charge of the course and its students. Any questions a
student has regarding the course or the materials on the course must be
directed to the Course Supervisor, never to another student.

                1040

Suppressive Act
Actions or omissions undertaken knowingly to suppress, reduce or impede
Dianetics, Scientology or Scientologists.

Suppressive Person: SP
One who is battling constantly in covert ways to make others less
powerful and less able because of imagined danger to himself. The SP is
actually stuck on the time track at some point in the distant past long
forgotten. Such a person may even appear sane but in fact is quite
insane and incapable of viewing anything for what it actually is,
regarding others as constant threats to himself and operating to destroy
those around him.

                T

Technical bulletin: Hubbard Communications Office Technical Bulletin
(HCOB)
These contain the technology of Dianetics and Scientology as issued by
L. Ron Hubbard.

Technical Division: Tech Div
That part of a Scientology organization which routinely delivers
auditing and training services. It handles the technology of Dianetics
and Scientology, thus it is the Tech Div.

Technology
The methods of application of an art or science as opposed to mere
knowledge of the science itself.

Terminal
Anything that can receive, relay or send a communication (most common
usage); also, anything with mass and meaning.

Theta
Energy peculiar to life or a thetan which acts upon the material in the
physical universe and animates it, mobilizes it and changes it; natural
creative energy of a thetan which be has free to direct toward survival
goals, especially when it manifests itself as high tone constructive
communications.

Theta Bop
A small or wide steady dance of the needle. Over a spread of one-eighth
of an inch, say (depending on sensitivity setting, it can be half an
inch), the needle goes up and down perhaps five or ten times a second.
It goes up, sticks, falls, sticks, goes up, sticks, etc., always the
same distance like a slow tuning fork. It is a constant distance and a
constant speed. A theta bop means "death," "leaving," "don't want to be
here." It is caused by a yo-yo of the preclear as a thetan vibrating out
and into the body or a position in the body. It's as if the needle is
jumping between two peaks across a narrow valley.

Thetan
From THETA (life static), a word taken from the Greek symbol or letter:
theta, traditional symbol for thought or spirit. The thetan is the
individual himself--not the body or the mind. The thetan is the "I"; one
doesn't have or own a thetan; one is a thetan.

Third Dynamic
See     Dynamics.

Tick
Small jerk of the needle.

                1041

Time track: Track
The endless record complete with 52 perceptions of the pc's entire past;
the consecutive record of mental image pictures which accumulates
through the preclear's life or lives. It is very exactly dated.

Tone Arm: TA
Meter control lever on the E-meter (See illustration of an E-meter.)

Tone arm action: TA
Movement of the tone arm of the E-meter (see illustration of an E-meter
in the text) when it has to be moved more than one tenth of a division
to keep the needle at set (except during body movement); the total
number of divisions down a tone arm has moved accurately in a unit of
time such as twenty minutes or two and a half hour session. Tone arm
action denotes a change, and therefore, that case gain for the preclear
is occuring.

Tone 40
Intention without reservation or limit; an execution of intention.

Tone scale
A gradation of the various factors of behavior, thought, emotion,
communication and many other factors plotted on a precise scale of
levels of survival potential.

Touch Assist
An assist that brings the person's attention to injured or affected body
areas. When attention is withdrawn from them, so is circulation, nerve
flows and energy, which for one thing limits nutrition to the area, and
for another limits the drainage of waste products. Some ancient healers
attributed remarkable flows and qualities to the "laying on of hands."
Probably the workable element in this was simply heightening awareness
of the affected area and restoring the physical communication factors.

Training Drills
See     Training Routines.

TR 101-104
Training drills on the Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course which train the
student auditor to run R3R.

Treason
Betrayal after trust. This is one of the Scientology ethics conditions.

Triple Dianetics
The three flows--another to self, self to another, and another to
another--run on a preclear by an auditor using Dianetics R3R procedure.

Triple Flow
Occurs when the three flows--another to self, self to another, and
another to another--are run on a preclear by an auditor in Dianetics or
Scientology.

Triples: Triple Flows
Dianetics and Scientology use of the three basic flows inward, outward
and cross, in auditing.

Training Routines: Symbol TRs
Training drills on Dianetics and Scientology courses which train
students to communicate and audit. Specific auditor skill in
communication and session command are gained in doing the TRs.

Two-way comm
The precise technology of a process used to clarify data with another
for the other. It is not chatter. It is governed by the rules of
auditing. It is governed by the communication cycle.

                1042

Twin
The study partner with whom one is paired. Two students studying the
same subject who are paired to checkout or help each other are said to
be "twinned."

                U

Unburdening
As a basic is not at once available on any chain one usually ~unburdens~
it by running later engrams (closer to present time), secondaries and
locks. The act of unburdening would be digging off the top to get at the
bottom as in moving sand. As you run off later incidents, the ability of
the preclear to confront it also increases and basic is easy to run when
finally contacted.

Understanding
Composed of affinity, reality and communication. These three things are
necessary to the understanding of anything. One has to have some
affinity for it, it has to be real to him to some degree and he needs
some communication with it before he can understand it. Greater
understanding comes about by increasing any one of these three factors.

Unmocking
Attempting to reduce or make disappear, make nothing of.

Upper Indoc (indoctrination) TRs (TRs 6 to 9)
Purpose of these four training drills is to bring about in the student
the willingness and ability to handle and control other people's bodies
and to cheerfully confront another person while giving that person
commands. Also to maintain a high level of control in any circumstances.

Uptone
At a high level of survival or state of being, plotted on the tone
scale. A person who is uptone, or high-toned, has a greater ability to
handle his facsimiles, to control his environment and has a greater
degree of survival than someone who is downtone, or low-toned.

                V

Valuable Final Product
Something that can be exchanged with other activities in return for
support.

Valence
Is the assumption at the reactive level by one individual of the
characteristics of another individual. An individual may have a number
of valences which he puts on and off as he might hats. Often these
changes are so marked that an observant person can notice him dropping
one valence and putting on another. The shift from valence to valence is
usually completely outside the awareness and control of the individual
doing so. In other cases an individual has one valence, not his own, in
which he is thoroughly stuck.

Visio
Perceptic. Ability to see in facsimile form something one has seen
earlier so that one sees it again in the same color, dimension scale,
brightness and detail as it was originally viewed.

                1043

                W

What's it
Pc saying 'whatsit whatsit whatsit that's wrong with me."

What's-it-line
From the auditor to the pc. The auditor is saying "what is it?" The
upward flow of the tone arm. Restimulated but unresolved charge. The
itsa line charge channels down and disintegrates.

White Form
See     Preclear Assessment Form/Sheet.

Whole Track
The moment to moment record of a person's existence in this universe in
picture and impression form.

Withhold
An undisclosed harmful (contra-survival) act.

Word Clearing
A Scientology procedure used to locate and clear words the student or
preclear has misunderstood in his studies of Dianetics and Scientology
or earlier subjects he has studied.

Worksheets
The sheets on which the auditor writes a complete running record of the
session from beginning to end, page after page, as the session goes
along.

Worldwide: WW
The worldwide headquarters of the network of Scientology churches. It is
located at Saint Hill Manor in East Grinstead, Sussex, England.

                Y

Yellow Sheet
A sheet detailing each correction list or set of commands which have
been word cleared. It also lists the pc's current Havingness process and
the type of cans the pc uses.


                    General Index 1045

                A

Aberration, 47-49, 70, 82, 102, 136, 310,
    333, 355, 553, 604, 946, 958, 959

ABCD, 348, 349, 577, 579, 613
    additional, 349, 580

Accident-prone, 110

Acknowledgements, 134, 135, 158-163,
    352
    half, 307
    getting a pc talking, 134, 159

Administration, 247, 252, 598
    auditor, 247-255, 259-263, 265, 266
    groups, 952, 953

Agreement, 8

Alter-is, 71, 474, 475
    drug, 474,475

Amnesia, 299, 300

Anaten, 420, 632
    pc in session, 420, 632

Antibiotics, 446, 484

APA graph, 266-271

ARC break, 71, 135, 175, 191, 234, 237,
    308, 330, 332, 411, 413, 414, 417, 540,
    548, 551
    assessment, 356, 417
    time mishandling, 333
    caused by missed withholds, 414
    prior charge restimulated, 330, 333
    why, 122, 191, 354

ARC broken, 133, 240
    pc,133, 151, 630

Art of case supervision, 560-562

As-is, 120, 130
    pc's ability to, 182, 183

As-is-ness, 182
    impeding, 182

Aspirin, 469, 470, 472, 640
    drying-out period, 472

Assessment, 189, 191, 192, 194, 197, 336,
    337, 339, 340, 522
    by instant read, 192, 197
    by tone arm, 189, 337
    considerations, 338
    Dianetic, 69, 245, 254, 337
    method 3 drill, 395
    method 5 drill, 398
    interest, 338, 522
    longest read, 191, 192, 337, 339, 522
    multiple somatic, 526
    narrative items, 357
    not rote, 339
    prior to drugs, 449

Assignment policies, 617
    auditor, 617

Assists, 425-467
    ARC breaks, 451, 454, 459
    checklist, 458
    commands, 458-464
    confused scene, 429
    contact, 432-435, 443, 454
    drills, 434, 435, 441, 442
    drunkenness, 449
    engrams, 454, 461
    first aid, 430, 431, 433
    handling accidents, 427, 430
    injured person, 454
    overts, 451, 460, 461
    police, 427, 429
    postoperative auditing, 638
    present time, 454
    problems, 451, 454, 459
    secondaries, 454, 460, 461
    technique, 426
    temperature, 430, 446
    touch, 432, 433, 435, 441-443, 454
    unconsciousness, 433, 455
    unconscious person, 449
    withholds, 454, 460

Attention, 2, 92, 125, 332, 491

Auditing, 1, 2, 130, 403, 610, 616-618,
    624
    as-is-ness, 120, 130, 182, 183
    assist, 404, 444
    comm cycle, 120, 124-129
    crimes, 251, 355, 635
    definition, 1, 2, 4, 64, 330
    flagrant errors, 198, 199, 201, 611
    how to become an auditor, 1-6
    major faults, 198, 199, 588, 598, 600,
    612, 613
    preclear definition, 1, 4
    time track, 39-42, 82, 83, 327, 328

Auditor, 1, 2, 340, 341, 537, 600, 614,
    616,624
    can't run engrams, 333, 334

Auditors, 2, 182, 211, 404
    drills, 244
    format for, 379
    road out, 4
    social behavior, 4
    technician, 5

Auditor's code, 2, 118, 182, 188, 201,
    202, 205, 474, 523, 596, 635
    mixing Dianetics with other practices,
    118, 625, 628, 629
    refunds, 118
    treating illness, 67, 523

                1046

Authoritarianism, 7, 10, 15, 16

Authorities, 8

Aware, 141, 329
    only of own evaluation, 329

Awareness, 141, 521

Axioms, 943

                B

Bad, 300
    hearing, 110, 111
    memory, 300
    sight, 110

Bad indicators, 227, 228, 3400
    spotting drill, 219, 220

Barriers, 22-36
    study, 22-29
    how to handle, 23, 26, 30-36

Basic, 79, 83, 330, 332, 336
    not erased, 234, 331
    tech, 120

Basic auditing, 120
    dirty needles, 186, 200-202, 415

Bedside manner, 182

Beginning Dianetics, 403

Big win, 239
    on list, 493
    on ~Self Analysis~ lists, 493

Birth control pills, 458

Bizarre, 50, 444, 445
    aches, 50
    pains, 50

Black, 68, 309, 339, 960
    pc says all, 309

Black five (V), 329, 357

Blank stare, 477

Blowdowns, 203, 330, 337, 526, 612, 634
    goofs, 203

Blue sheet, 570

Bull-bait, 153
    TR-0, 153

Bull-baited, 379
    drill format, 379

Burns, 111, 324

Buttons, 611
    using "false", 611
    using "suppress", 344-346, 611

By-passed charge, 238, 333, 374, 540

                C

Calibration, 205
    E-meter, 205

Caring, 603

Case, 4, 618-620, 624, 633, 936, 944, 957
    histories, 645-930
    state of, 4, 187, 188, 328

Case supervisor, 252, 259, 404, 521,
    545-552, 555-558, 597-644
    code, 558
    duties, 253, 545, 558, 600, 602
    errors, 551, 614
    failures, 598, 614
    mystified, 582
    programmes, 545, 556, 565, 567, 568
    purpose, 404, 545, 546
    rules, 556-558, 623, 624, 634

Case supervision, 112, 262, 537, 606, 608
    failures, primary cause, 598, 611, 620

CCHs, 164, 269, 270, 329, 357, 488-497
    body control, 488
    drill, 493-497
    heighten perception, 490, 491
    improve communication, 489
    improve control, 489
    improve duplication, 488, 489
    increase havingness, 488, 490, 491

Cells, 73

Chain, 51-63, 78, 83, 319
    too late on, 319

Chains, 62, 78, 83, 298, 305, 336-338
    how held together, 399, 931
    pc can't see, 329

Charge, 233, 238, 320, 328-331, 346, 561,
    634,635

Checkouts, 31
    errors, 31

Childbirth, 450, 109

Children, 631, 632
    mentally retarded, 110

Chronic somatic, 549

Chronically ill, 586, 640, 961

Clay table training, 244

Cleaning, 200, 238
    a needle, 200

Clears, 4, 144, 187, 189, 294, 306, 308,
    329, 943, 959

Coaching, 145-149, 380
    back-off, 147
    definition, 145
    intention, 146
    purpose, 145
    reality, 145

Cognitions, 233, 235, 243, 550

Command, 609, 384, 386
    clearing drill, 385

Commands, 101, 249, 347-350
    flow 2, 349
    flow 3, 349
    going earlier, 349

Comm cycle, 203, 440
    additives, 133
    additive Qs and orders, 135, 136
    distractive Qs and orders, 133

Comm cycles in auditing, 120-122,
    125-128
    has pc received command, 126

                1047

    has pc received acknowledgement, 128
    repetitive commands, 123
    origination cycle, 123
    has pc answered, 123, 127

Comm, 122
    hidden line, 122

Communication, 119-183
    do something for pc, 124, 129-132
    use of a comm cycle, 124, 129

Communication cycle, 119, 122, 124-129,
    131
    as-is-ness, 120
    backflow to, 127
    fundamental auditing, 120, 121
    terminals, 119

Competence, 148
    and morale, 148

Composite engram, 62, 63
    explains case problems, 62
    remedy, 63
    symptoms, 62

Composite engrams, 522, 532

Compulsion, 516
    drugs, 516

Confront, 33-36, 67, 90, 96, 99, 140-145,
    151-153, 301-304, 307, 321, 338, 552,
    555, 626
    and the E-meter, 338
    increasing, 36, 321
    over, 304, 306
    reducing the pc's, 181
    students, 26, 33, 34, 36, 143
    under, 304, 306

Confused ideas, 26, 28, 29, 33
    misunderstoods, 26, 28, 29, 33

Contact assist, 432-434
    drill, 434, 435
    end phenomena, 434

Control, 68, 158, 169, 170, 176-178, 181,
    252, 428, 429

Control center, 74

Correction lists, 245, 253, 544

Counter-effort, 73, 477

Cramming, 557, 597, 601, 955, 960
    orders, 601

Criminals, 547

Critical thoughts, 413

C/S 1, 404-409, 485, 570
    drill, 404-409

Cultural lag, ~viii~

Current, 186
    discharge, 119
    electrical, 185, 213
    increase, 214

                D

Damage, 3
    fear of pain, 77

Data, 947, 951, 953, 956
    evaluation of, 10, 15, 20, 947

Date, 347, 936
    no, 936
    wrong, 350

Dating, 347

Death, 93, 193, 321, 471

Definitions, 24
    aberration, 47-49, 70, 82
    additive, 71
    ally, 70
    alter-is, 71
    analytical, 71
    analytical mind, 71
    ARC, 71, 493
    ARC break, 71
    assess, 69
    automatic bank, 69
    basic, 57, 58, 332
    black field, 68
    chains, 52-55, 78, 83
    chains, how to run, 330
    circuit, 70, 170
    confront, 141
    derangement, 48, 49
    Dianetic auditor, how he works, 1-3
    Dianetics, basic error, 611
    engram, 16, 43, 67, 78, 290, 315
    erasure, 58, 59, 231, 235, 332
    experience, non-painful, 45
    experience, disturbing, 45
    floating needle, 64
    headaches, 52, 55
    illness, 47
    incident, 56, 78, 319
    is-ness, 71, 86, 88, 219
    invisible field, 68
    key-ins, 52, 69, 78
    key-out, 60, 69, 235, 236
    lock, 45, 78, 304
    loss, 44, 369
    machine, 70
    manifestations,
        of engrams and secondaries, 64-66
    mental image picture, 38, 42, 78
    misemotion, 66
    multiple illness, 69, 527, 532
    pain, 50, 51, 65, 73, 74, 428
    perception, 41, 65, 225-227
    pleasure moment, 42
    present time, 41, 46
    pressure somatic, 65, 68
    psychosomatic, 47
    recording, 51
    ridge, 70
    secondary, 44, 65, 78, 290, 314, 315
    sensation, 65
    somatic, 49, 55, 64, 524
    symptoms, handling, 63, 522
    time track, 39-42, 46, 77, 316

                1048

    unburdening, 57
    valence, 102

Delusion, 289

Demonstrations, 26, 405-409
    how to, 405-409
    new pcs, 405-409
    purpose, 26
    study, 26

Denyer, 79

Dianetic assessment lists admin, 253, 254

Dianetic assist, 432, 433, 443, 447, 605
    drill 447

Dianetic auditing, 51, 63, 96, 102, 231,
    232, 341, 346-349, 607, 621, 623,
    626-629, 960
    objective, 50, 63, 79, 96, 102, 109, 323,
    959

Dianetic auditor, 51, 61, 66, 107, 108,
    235-237, 359, 574, 932, 961
    skill, 107, 108, 235, 578, 949, 962
    tools, 7, 107, 124

Dianetic counseling groups, 932-934, 938,
    939, 941, 952
    errors, 938
    hats, 939
    tithes, 939

Dianetic,
    course rules, 953
    C/S 1, 404-409, 570
    flow table admin, 245, 261, 262, 372
    student rescue intensive, 464
    training, 111, 932, 944, 945, 952, 961
    length of, 111, 466, 933

Dianetics, 7, 38, 107, 109, 110, 401, 931
    and education, 943, 946
    difference, Dianetics and Scientology,
        67, 107-112, 589
    study, how to, 7, 946, 953
    use, 109, 111, 112, 563, 948

Dictionaries, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33
    how to use, 29, 30
    huge, 32
    skill, 29-30
    small, 27, 32

Difficult pc, 571

Disagreements, 191
    with theory, 26-27

Dissemination, 285-286
    Dianetics and Scientology, 285

DMSMH, 3, 76, 280, 307, 321, 367, 548,
    969

DMT, 474

Doingness, 22, 24, 25

Dope-off, 540
    handling, 540

Down stats, 277, 282, 283

Dramatization, 290, 292

Dreams, 314

Drill, 373, 374, 441-443, 522-524
    assist, 434, 435, 439, 441-443
    CCHs, 493-497
    clearing commands, 384-386
    contact, 434
    Dianetic C/S 1, 502
    filling in undone flows, 373, 374
    flying ruds, 416
    F/N indication, 241
    health form, 522-524
    L3RD, 394, 395
    method 3 assessment, 395
    method 5 assessment, 398
    model session, 494-497
    preclear assessment form, 502, 512
    ~Self Analysis~ lists, 498-501
    session setup, 346, 541
    spotting bad indicators, 219, 220
    student rescue intensive, 464-466
    touch assists, 439, 441-443
    unconscious person, 449

Drills, 379-384, 394-398
    format for, 379, 380
    TRs 101 to 104, 182, 183, 379-384

Drugs, 73, 386, 404, 455, 469-520
    alcohol, 483
    as-is-ness, 474
    heavy users, 481, 486
    how to handle, 481, 484-487, 512-517
    no case gain, 480, 633
    objective processes, 477, 481, 486
    pc currently on, 404, 484, 486, 587
    prevents case gain, 472, 478, 480, 483
    resistive case, 483, 485, 633, 634
    steps to handle, 512-517
    taking, 471, 643
    TRs, 484-486, 488
    vitamins, 479-481, 486, 487
    weaned off, 486

Drunkenness, 449

Drying out drugs, 472, 478, 483
    time period, 472, 483

Dub-in, 78, 329

Dull student, 26

Dummy auditing, step I, 157
    communication, 154, 155, 157
    getting comm across, 153, 154, 157
    intention, 157
    tone 40 8-C, 157

Dummy auditing, step II, 162
    acknowledgements, 158-163
    bad auditing, 599-600
    controlling communication, 158, 159
    double acknowledgernents,
    misacknowledgements, 134
    obsessive communication, 159, 160
    tone of voice acknowledgements, 162

Dummy auditing, step III, 167

                1049

    auditing commands, 163-165, 167
    communication, 165
    duplication, 163-165
    experience, 166, 167

Dummy auditing, step IV, 174
    children, 171
    circuits, 170
    comm bridge, 173, 174
    everyday world, 171
    handling originations, 169-171, 175
    maintain ARC, 172, 173
    return pc to session, 172, 173
    understand, 175

Duration, 309, 347, 350, 936
    incorrect, 349
    no, 347

                E

Earlier beginning, 579, 349
    failure to ask, 579

Earlier incident, 349
    pc can't find one, 579, 349

Eat, 640
    can't, 640

Education, 20-23, 25, 943
    definition, 21

Effort, 400

Electric shock treatment, 3, 113, 114,
    445, 634

E-meter, 64, 185-196, 199, 202-207, 211,
    217, 224, 225, 280, 316, 330, 338, 936,
    assessment, 189, 338, 339
    clear read, 189
    electrical resistance, 185
    familiarization with, 186
    main needle actions, 190-194
    mass, 185, 365
    needle, 186, 187, 190-195
    practice, 186, 194, 217
    pre-conscious meter, 186, 233, 316, 338
    reactive mind, 196
    sensitivity, 189, 190, 192, 194, 243
    what to run at, 194
    theory, 186
    tone arm, 187, 188, 192, 202, 203, 330
        construction, 187
    what needle shows, 187, 190, 191,
        193-195, 199, 330
    what tone arm shows, 186-188, 330

E-meter errors, 199

E-meter illustration, 184

E-meter and new pcs, 405-406

Emotion, 65
    chronic, 221-303

End phenomena, 231-244, 259, 542, 551,
    624

    assist, 243, 433, 444
    Dianetics, 232
    feeding to pc, 233
    rudiments, 237
    ~Self Analysis~ list, 492, 493, 498, 499

Engineering, 12

Engrams, 16, 43, 47, 49, 67, 77, 78, 290,
    303, 315, 317, 331, 336, 350-352, 549,
    550, 622, 634
    command value, 548
    creation of, 43
    goes solid, 360
    pc can't find, 227, 549
    phrases, 80, 548
    running laws, 82, 352, 635

Erasure, 58, 59, 232, 234, 235, 298, 320,
    359, 360
    how to attain, 91, 237, 298, 299, 320,
        332, 359
    how not to, 359

Erasing, 348
    pc doesn't know, 348

Error, 457, 541, 570, 612, 613
    fundamental, 586, 938
    major, 538, 584
    worst, 612, 613

Errors, 101, 320, 594, 612-614, 635
    on running engrams, 101, 320, 584

Ethics, 242, 481
    data auditor admin, 255, 256
    and drugs, 481

Euthanasia,
Evil, 103, 943
    purposes, 250, 253

Exam form, 258, 596

Examination, correct, 450

Examiner, 256, 257, 263-265, 621
    duty, 263, 264
    judging pc indicators, 263, 264

Existence, 94

Exteriorization, 92, 375, 477, 552, 612,
    619
    false from drugs, 477, 634

                F

Facsimilies, 78

Failed Sessions, 579, 592
    what to do, 579, 588, 592

Failure, 638, 937
    foremost, 19-21
    study, 19-26
    cause of, 638, 952, 956

False reports, 542, 587, 592, 594, 609

False TA, 205, 206, 208-210, 212-214
    checklist, 214-217
    phenomena, 207

                1050

    rudiments, 416

Fast students, 955

Firefights, 378

Flat point, 189

Flattening, definition, 35

Floating needles, 64, 68, 203, 204, 214,
    231-235, 237, 613, 614, 621
    abuse, 231, 232
    indication of drill, 241
    persistent, 239, 240
    small, 233, 240

Flow, 335, 347, 349

Flows, 335, 349, 369
    three, 335, 349, 370

Flubbed commands, 578, 588

Flunks, 136, 599
    auditor, 352, 599

Flying rudiments, 411-419
    drills, 416

Forcing a pc to go earlier, 362, 584, 595,
    634

F/Ning everything, 237, 238, 397

Folder, 246, 248-268, 621
    error summary, 246, 259, 260, 597,
        603, 620

Force, 75, 400, 549-552, 564

Folder summary, 246, 248, 260, 261, 539

Format, 379
    drills, 379
    bull-baited, 379
    unbull-baited, 379

Former lives, 353

Former therapy, 633, 634

Frozen emotions, 369

Full flow Dianetics, 370-376, 378, 583

Full flow table, 372, 378

Freud, 10, 76, 96, 299, 309, 958

                G

Gains, 2, 130, 532, 625, 643, 935
    no, 134, 182, 411, 587, 625
    prevented, 478

Genius, 103, 300

Glib student, 26, 34

Good indicators list, 228-229

Goofed sessions, 598

Grade, 455, 541, 617

Gradient scale, 23, 35, 100, 301, 606, 945
    confusions, 23
    definitions, 23, 960

Grinding, 330, 361, 613
    reason for, 330
    and OTs, 369

Green form, 401, 483, 573, 575, 581, 636

Gross auditing errors, 134, 198, 243, 342,
    343

Grouper, 79, 83

Gung ho groups, 932

                H

Hands, 207, 213
    calloused, 208, 213
    cold, 208
    dry, 207, 213
    sweaty, 207, 365

Handwriting, 265, 266
    drill, 265, 266

Happiness, 63

Happy preclears, 63, 522

Hashish, 473

Havingness, 82, 159, 419, 420, 454
    as-ising techniques reduce, 420
    objective techniques reduce, 423
    finding havingness process, 420, 421
    process purpose, 422
    process testing, 420
    process tightening needle, 420
    processes, 421, 422, 530

Havingness, locational, 426, 449
    handles drunkenness, 449

Headaches, 525, 591

Healing,447, 453, 642
    time, 447

Health form, 486, 521, 523, 526, 527
    drill, 523, 524

Hereditary, 641

Hidden data line, 956

Hidden standards, 323, 548

High TA, 197, 207, 208, 210, 211, 213,
    214, 339, 364-367, 374, 416, 470, 471,
    515, 549, 552, 612, 634
    after R3R, 366
    cure, 364, 365, 515
    in Dianetics, 364, 539
    don't run rudiments on, 238, 416, 539
    erasure, 365, 470, 471
    false, 207, 208, 210, 211, 213
    session start, 416, 539
    what caused it, 197, 211

Human,
    disability,
    situations,

                I

Identities, 293
    famous, 293

Illegibility, 596
    of reports, 596

Illness, 280, 451, 522, 527, 531, 534, 587,
    591, 610, 633, 636, 637, 642, 644
    long-term, 637
    recurring, 527

Illusions, 312-314
    come of running engrams, 314

                1051

    experience, 312
    neglecting, 312

Implant, 113, 633, 634
    restimulated, 634

Importances, 20, 21
    evaluation of, 20, 21, 946

Incident, 56, 78, 79, 347-349
    erasing, 359, 360
    not erasing, 348
    late on the chain, 361
    not discharging, 589

Incidents, 62, 78, 375

Inertia, 138
    body, 138

Insane, 136, 281, 325, 576, 639, 640
    don't audit, 325
    illness, 639, 640
    recovery, 138
    policies governing, 325

Insanity, 8, 18, 443, 474, 639
    cause, 108, 136, 639, 640

In session, 182, 183, 198
    definition, 182, 183, 198

Institutions, 113

Integrity, 285, 542

Interest, 338, 340, 518, 522, 523
    necessary, 340
    no, 518

Intestinal flora, 480

Invalidating, 594, 613, 959
    auditors, 594

Invalidation, 35, 951
    button, 344-346
    definition, 35
    when to use, 611

Is-ness, 86, 88, 219

Item, 338, 340, 346
    abandoned, 237
    charged, 238
    gives LFBD, 338
    invalidated, 611

Items, 197
    Dianetics, 540
    never run twice, 540
    nonreading, 197, 342, 343, 345, 612

Itsa line, 122

Itsa maker line, 121

                J

Jumped chains, 236, 579

                K

Key-ins, 78

Kicks (drugs), 473-474

                L

L3RD, 238, 351, 376, 377, 388-395, 401,
    484, 520, 611, 622, 623
    drill, 388, 394

L4BR, 630, 631

Lambda, see axiom 11

Language, 29, 33

Learning, 464-467
    can't, 464
    about engrams, 77

Legality, ~vii~

Lived before, 321
    why the individual can't remember, 299

List errors, 611, 630

Locks, 45, 78, 83, 304, 550
    F/Ning, 359

Long fall blowdown, 337

Long history, 110, 637
    accidents, 110
    illness, 110, 637

Long-term illness, 110

Loss, 314, 369

Loses, 100
    pc in auditing, 100
    low TA, 238

Low TA, 197, 207, 211, 212, 339, 367,
    549, 623
    erasure, 360, 361, 367
    false, 207, 211, 212
    poor TRs, 212

LSD, 472, 482

                M

Major action, 540, 541, 624

Marijuana, 473-474, 482, 643

Mass, 93, 119, 189, 311, 550
    black, 93, 97
    electrical resistance, 185

Medical, 488, 523, 531, 610
    data auditor admin, 258
    diagnosis, 450
    liaison, 108

Medical terms, 524, 525
    get the feeling 524, 525
    somatics, 526

Medical treatment, 534, 587, 637, 638
    not responding to, 534

Medicine, 310, 416, 447, 533

Mental image pictures, 42-46, 66, 68, 76,
    143, 314, 470, 931, 957
    cause, 290
    emotions, 50, 484
    sensations, 484
    attitudes, 50, 484

Mental mass, 186, 363, 366, 550

                1052

Mental science, 108

Metering, 183

Meter reads, 190-193, 197

Mind, 28, 73, 105, 287, 291, 311, 958
    anatomy, 76, 286
    self-protecting mechanism, 3

Misassessment, 579, 580

Misrepresentation, 21, 22
    study, 21, 22

Misunderstoods, 24-27, 29-31, 33
    causing reads, 387
    handling, 26, 27, 29-32, 954

Misunderstood words, 24-30, 32, 33
    phenomena, 24-27, 29-31

Ministers, 185, 186, 456, 940

Missed withhold, 415, 614
    rudiment, 418

Mock-ups, 78, 290, 311

Model session, 493
    drill, 493

Morale, 91, 98, 148
    tough checkouts, 148

Motion, 65

Motivator engrams, 368

Motivators, 367, 412

Multiple items, 526

                N

Narrative, 526, 612
    commands, 358, 359
    going earlier command, 359
    items, 357, 358, 526, 612
    items explained, 357
    secondary commands, 358

Narratives, 357
    running, 399

Nattery pc, 412, 558

Needle, 190-195, 197, 199-202, 257
    ARC break needle, 191, 234, 240, 418
    body reactions, 194, 195, 199
    dirty needle, 186, 200-202, 415
    falls, 191, 192
    falling needle, 191
    change of characteristic, 192
    free needle, 194, 231-234, 237, 239, 240
    instant reaction, 192, 396
    null, 190, 194
    rising, 192, 193, 199
    rock slam, 193, 194
    stage four, 195, 240
    stuck, 190, 194
    theta hop, 190, 193
    tight, 190, 200

Neurosis, 310

Neurosurgery, 114

Neurotic, 294

New preclears, 336, 403, 404, 570, 587

Nonapplication, 21
    reason for, 21, 22

No floating needle, 264, 618-620
    flagrant errors, 619
    case bugs, 619
    case study, 618
    high TA, 621
    low TA, 207, 264
    overrun, 207, 232
    unflat chains, 264

Noninvolvement, 20
    study, 20

No gains, 411, 412, 574
    Null lists, 344, 611
    Nutrition, 479, 481

                O

Objective, 422, 477, 479
    havingness, 422, 477, 479

Obnosis, 219-223, 417
    chronic tone, 221, 222
    drills, 219-222
    eyes, 221

Obsessions, 41

OCA, 246, 266-271
    ARC breaks, 268
    dropped traits, 268-270
    unchanging graph, 268

Operations, 109, 626
    exploratory, 638

Organisms, (axioms)

Out of present time, 588

Out ruds, 538, 540, 579
    recognition, 540
    handling, 414, 539

Out TRs, 182, 238, 584, 601, 611, 614

Overburden, 626

Overwhelming, 328, 331, 484, 523, 639,
    640
    the pc, 328, 484, 523, 549, 550

Overrunning, 35, 232, 243, 244, 540, 550,
    634,
    the chain, 361

Overt, 367-370
    engram, 367

Overt-motivator sequence, 367-370, 413
    cause permanent creation, 81

Overts, 82, 211, 411-413

                P

Pain, 11, 50, 51, 65, 73, 74, 428, 550, 626
    auditor Q and A with, 333

Painkillers, 469

Past deaths, 294

                1053

Past lives, 293, 298, 353, 355, 362
    none, 353
    remedy, 631

PC, 1, 236, 403, 405, 612
    data take it (pc's), 67, 353, 630
    disturbed, 348
    dubbing-in, 328, 329
    extreme upset, 243
    fast, 616, 617
    feels awful, 603
    giving other people's withholds,
    groggy after Dianetic session, 322
    ill after auditing, 581
    insane, 110, 576
    massy, 372, 376
    misbehaving, 301
        nattery, 401, 412, 413, 573
    not advancing, 563
    not-ising, 613
    protesting, 338
    remains ARC broken on Dianetics, 378
    sad at session end, 581
    running badly, 386, 571
    total apathy, 630
    won't answer, 630

Peculiarities, 400

Perception, 555, 936
    shut-off, 936

Perceptions, 77, 225-227
    55 human, 46, 77, 78, 83, 225-227

Permanently created, 81

Persisting somatic, 622

Peyote, 473, 482, 937

Physical universe, 80, 82, 85, 90
    tendency, 80

Physics, 12

Pictures, 98, 252, 290, 314, 333, 400,
    550, 622, 632, 633
    availability, 98, 960

Pleasure, 314

Politics, 13

Postoperative, 109, 638
    auditing, 638
    conditions, 638

Postpartum psychosis, 109, 610

Postulation, 291, 550, 945

Potential trouble source, 277, 281, 457

Power of choice, 20, 21, 82
    deteriorated, 82

Pregnancy and auditing, 109, 111, 457,
    523, 610

Preclear assessment sheet, 484, 485,
    502-512, 638

Preclear assessment form, 484

Predisposition, 451, 453

Pre-OTs, 560, 561, 616
    and OT III, 361
    auditing, 616
    who can't handle them, 617, 618

Prepared lists, 611
    assessing failures, 611
    F/Ning, 611
    F/Ning everything, 237, 238
    missed withhold phenomena, 199
    no reads, 611
    primary cause of failure, 611

Present life incidents, 144

Present time problem, 237, 411, 412, 418

Pressure somatics, 65, 66, 68, 623

Preventing case gain, 480

Preventing pc from going earlier, 294,
    299, 362

Priests, 105, 547

Primary barrier, 481
    to coming off drugs, 481

Prior assessment, 449, 484, 486, 515, 516

Problems, 478
    anatomy, 142
    cause permanent, 81
    medical, 587, 636-638
    process, 144, 145
    spiritual, 636-637

Processing, 1, 242, 431, 602, 606, 607
    oldest rules, 242

Production, 148
    and morale, 148

Programming, 556

Programs, 545, 565-567, 607, 620

Program 252, 253, 537, 539, 541, 621,
    622, 624
    sheet, 245, 570

Protested, 613
    rudiments, 418

Protest, 211
    reads, 338

Psychiatrists, 4, 84, 112-115, 275, 281,
    456, 483, 639, 958

Psychiatry, 113-115, 212, 283, 604, 935,
    940

Psychoanalysis, 10, 309, 403, 958

Psychology, 76, 294, 935, 940, 958

Psychosis, 310

Psychosomatic, 47, 50, 280, 310, 470
    illness, 47, 66, 108, 310, 368

Psychotic, 310, 324, 325
    definition, 324

Psychotics, 577
    auditing failures, 324

Psychotropic drugs, 640

PTP, 191, 581, 629, 633
    rudiment, 191

PTS, 277, 281, 548

                Q

Q and A, 136-139, 200, 201, 333, 614
    disease, 140, 614

                1054

    case supervisor's, 140
    examples, 136-140
    what it is, 136

Questions, unreading, 190

Quickie, 239, 519, 605, 608, 609
    definition, 239, 608
    grades, 239
    results, 605

                R

R3R, 55, 327, 336, 346-350, 356, 357,
    359, 401, 562, 610
    additives, 960
    after second time through, 348
    ARC breaks, 332, 356
    command theory, 307, 350
    commands, 347-349, 401
    duration, 347
    ending session, 401
    failures, 333, 356, 579
    going earlier, 349, 360, 363, 579
    handling, 347
    low TA, 360, 361
    narrative, 357, 359
    preliminary, 335
    steps, 347-349
    tone arm, 336-339

Randomity, 74

Reach and withdraw, 120, 186, 357

Reactive mind, 64, 76, 196

Reading, 196-202, 619
    an E-meter, 196-202

Reads, 187, 189, 201, 204, 237, 337, 342,
    346, 387, 619
    confusion on, 343
    dirty, 201
    instant, 342, 396
        definition, 342, 396
    missing them, 342, 343
    rudiments, 191, 417
    size of differentiation, 191
    when they occur, 190-192

Reality, 84, 96, 224, 225, 289, 346, 400
    pc's level, 225

Reason, 83

Recall, 455, 484, 492, 529
    process, 492, 529
    ~Self Analysis~ lists 492

Recording, 68, 316

Recurring somatic, 626

Red sheet, 253, 570

Red tab, 258, 544
    exam, 258

Rehabbing, 376, 377
    chains, 376

Rehabilitation, 376, 471

Religious practice (Scientologist), 185,
    456

Repair, 239, 535, 540, 623, 624, 630
    program, 567, 570

Report, 246, 248, 251, 254, 598, 599
    form auditor, 246, 248, 251, 596
    assists, 251

Researchers, 472, 480, 937

Restimulation, 75, 330, 943, 944, 953

Results, 572, 592, 933

Retraining, 580

Return program, 567

Review, 202, 236, 401, 562, 574, 940

R-factor, 405

Rhythm and the time track, 80

Rights, 537
    auditor's, 537-544, 600

Road out, 4, 325, 569

Rockslam, 193, 194
    items, 250, 253

Rote procedure, 327, 340, 341, 351, 419

Rudiments, 191, 202, 238, 411, 416, 540
    ARC break, 237, 411, 417
    missed withhold, 199, 415, 418, 419
    not F/Ning, 237
    PTP, 191, 237, 411, 412, 418
    suppressed, 418
    unreading, 418
    withhold, 191, 199, 202, 413, 419

Running, 957
    out auditing, 398, 399, 562

                S

Sadness, 419, 540, 581

Sad, 419, 540, 581
    pc, 419, 540, 581

Sane, 91, 281

Sanity, 8, 18, 86
    definition, 8

Scales, 223, 224, 225
    CDEI 417
    effect,
    emotional, 223
    havingness,
    identification,
    know to mystery, 223, 224
    reality, 224, 225
    tone scale expanded, 223, 224

Scared, 307
    pc, 307

Sciences, 12, 641

Scientologists, 3, 617, 949

Secondaries, 78, 305, 323, 550
    run until pc at tone 4, 315

Secondary, 44, 67, 302, 314, 529
    goes solid, 529

~Self Analysis~, 492
    drill, 498-501

Self-auditing, 401, 564

                1055

Self-determinism, 226

Sensations, 65
    unwanted, 528

Sensitivity, 189-191, 195, 204, 243
    setting, errors, 189, 243
    what to run at, 189, 190

Sessions, 321, 598, 599, 614, 616
    auditing out, 321, 398, 399
    going earlier commands, 398
    ending, 540
    far apart, 539
    nonstandard, 534, 535
    running thetan out,
    setup drill, 346, 541

Setups, 540, 541

Short cuts, 569

Sickness, 259, 533
    after auditing, 533

Simplicity, 296
    the mind isn't, 296

Singles, 370
    already run, 370
    forbidden, 370
    missing flows, 371, 372
    multiple somatics, 372
    narrative already run, 372

Skin, 110
    blotches, 110
    rashes, 110

Sleep, 640
    can't, 640

Slow students, 955

Soaring, 540
    TA, 540

Solid, 67, 81, 88, 348, 360, 366
    erasing, when not to ask, 360
    pc doesn't know, 348

Solidity, 80, 226

Solidness, 80

Somatics, 55, 64, 337, 341, 471, 524, 622,
    627, 628, 931, 944
    none, 515, 644
    not gone, 531
    shut-off, 470, 515, 936

Something not handled, 528

Sonic, 936

Sources of trouble, 277, 281, 457

Speed, 604, 615-618

Spinal adjustment, 440
    assist, 440, 441
    intervertebral disk, 440
    relax muscle, 441

Spiritual healing (Dianetics), 107, 108,
    935

Squirreling, 951

Status, 21

Stenographic auditing, 251

State of case, 188

Static, 287

Step D of R3R, 348

STP, 474

Stuck picture, 400, 455, 534
    handling, 455

Student, 19, 20, 25-27, 150
    bright, 26
    definition of, 20
    Dianetic handling of, 464
    intention of, 19
    noninvolvement, 20, 26
    questions (how to handle), 26, 27, 953
    rescue intensive drill, 464-466

Study, 19-26, 30, 625, 957
    application speed of, 33
    basic reason, 19-21
    blows, cause of, 24
    gradient too steep, 23, 24
    physiological phenomena, 22-26, 30
    terms, 35

Subject, 22, 25, 33
    absence of mass, 22
    purpose, 7, 10, 19

Summary report form, 246, 254, 255

Superficial actions, 604-608

Supervisor, 198, 934, 944, 950, 956
    duty, 934, 952
    interpretations, 937, 953, 956
    too careful, 954

Surgery, 3

Sympathetic nervous system, 436, 627
    pains, 627
    unresolved pains, 627, 628

                T

TA, 202-205, 207, 209-217, 336, 337,
    411, 550, 551
    action, 202, 551
    none,474, 540
    rising, 360, 363, 375

Team action, 593, 940

Technique, 717, 958

Technology, 212, 278, 415, 416, 519, 948
    psychosomatics, 47, 66, 108, 310, 368

Temperature, 446
    assist, 463, 464

Terminals, 144

Text, 27
    importances, 20

Theta, 64
    facsimile, 78

Thetans, 64, 375, 549, 550, 553-555, 564,
    958

Thought, 89, 196
    storage of, 80

Time, 102, 196, 316, 333, 604, 607, 946,
    947

Time track, 39-42, 46, 76, 88, 100, 316,
    327, 475, 946

                1056

    creation, 80, 82, 332
    endless record, 39, 77
    grouping, 79, 83, 354
    invisibility, 328
    mest, 80, 84, 90, 332
    moving by significance, 333
        location, 334
        time, 102, 334
    none, 328
    significance, 84
    unavailability, 83, 85, 97, 329
    visibility, 328
    visible, 328

Tiredness, 110

Tithes, 939

Tone arm, 187-189, 192, 202-205, 217,
    330
    action, 188, 202, 203, 330
    absence of, 337, 346
    overrestimulation, 338, 365, 366

Tone scale, 222-224, 315
    development, 315

Toothache, 628

Touch assist, 99, 280, 435, 443, 541
    brain, 437, 439
    drill, 439, 441-443
    errors, 436
    extremities, 436, 437
    hypnotism, 439
    inertia, 138
    massage, 437, 440
    mesmerism, 439, 440
    physiological rapport, 439
    shock impulses, 437
    standing waves, 436

TR course, 623, 624
    and auditing, 624
    don't mix, 623, 624

TR-0, 151-153, 175, 270, 609
    OT TR-0, 151
    confront, 151-153
    patter, 153
    somatics on, 152
    TR-0, 152, 153, 175

TR-1, 153-158, 175, 945
    delivering an auditing command, 153,
        154, 157
    patter, 158

TR-2, 158-163, 176
    controlling pc's communication, 158,
        159

TR-3, 163-169, 176
    duplicative commands, 163-165
    patter, 167, 168

TR-4, 136, 169-176
    comments, 175
    originations, 136, 169-175
    patter, 175

Training, 487, 585, 616, 617, 943-945, 949

    in Dianetics and Scientology, 487, 943,
         945, 946

Tranquilizers, 640

Traumas, 426, 428, 358

Trim, 205, 206
    E-meter check, 205

Triple, 335, 529, 610
    commands, 349
    flows, 335, 375
    flows unflat, 374
    reruns, 374

Trips, 474
    drugs, 474

TRs (Training Routines), 131, 133,
    149-183, 201, 238, 616, 936
    and cognitions, 182, 183
    as-is-ness, 182, 193
    evaluation, 181
    invalidation, 181
    and dirty needles, 201
    gradients, 149, 945

TRs 6 to 9, 176-181
    body control, 176
    force, 181
    intention, 179-181
    tone 40, 157, 170, 171, 178, 180, 181,
        428, 945

Trust, 181
    auditors, 181
    C/S's, 547, 548
    overcoming pc's bank, 552

Truth, 286, 323, 946, 947
    road to, 286

                U

Unaware, 329

Unbull-baited, 151, 181
    drills format, 151, 181

Unburdening, 57, 363, 550

Unchanging, 563
    pc, 563, 582

Unconscious person, 449, 455
    drill, 449, 450

Understanding, 23, 25, 363
    the mind, 958

Undone flows, 373, 374
    filling in drill, 373

Unemotional people, 369

Unflat, 367
    chains, 376, 389
    masses, remedy, 367
    pictures, remedy, 400

Unhandled, 400
    masses, remedy, 400
    pictures, remedy, 400

Unmock, 474, 478

Unresolved, pains, 626

                1057

Unrun flows, 370-373
    how to handle, 373, 374
    Unwanted feelings, 340

                V

Valences, 69, 79, 102, 293, 295, 311, 318,
    355, 633
    synthetic, 102
    keynote, 104

Very well dones, 599
    auditor, 599

Vision, 309
    how to turn on, 309
    lack of, 936

Vitamins, 447, 451, 479

                W

Well dones, 599, 601
    auditor, 599

What's it line, 122

White form, 404

widows, 111

Win, 236, 243, 244, 314, 324, 545, 546,
    574
    big, 239, 314, 324, 561

Withdrawal symptoms, 478, 484

Withhold, 199, 308, 413, 414, 540, 548
    581
    rudiment, 413

Word clearing, 384
    drill, 384
    R3R, 386-388

Word list, 387

Words, 24-32, 405-408
    errors, 29-33
    how to clear, 26, 27, 29-32
    in learning, 24-27
    simple, 27, 29

Worksheets, 246, 249-252, 337, 596

                Y

Yellow sheet, 246, 263
    admin, 263

                ~This is the one that started it all!~

Get L. Ron Hubbard's
Explosive Best Seller

DIANETICS                        [PICTURE#92]
The Modern Science
of Mental Health

"DIANETICS IS AN ADVEN-
TURE. IT IS AN EXPLORA-
TION INTO TERRA INCOG-
NITA, THE HUMAN MIND,
THAT VAST AND HITHERTO
UNKNOWN REALM HALF AN
INCH BACK OF OUR FORE-
HEADS."
                    -- L. Ron Hubbard

This is Book One--the Million
Seller that shook the world in
1950 and continues to be a
best seller today.

Here are the original principles
and discoveries about the
human mind which cannot be
found elsewhere.

Read this book and gain an
understanding of the mind and
how it works!

Use it to gain increased ability
and a better life.

ORDER YOURS TODAY!

Just Send $7.00 to:
Church of Scientology
    Publications Organization
c/o American Saint Hill
    Organization
2723 West Temple Street
Los Angeles, California 90026

All orders will be shipped within 24 hours of receipt.
No Charge for postage and handling. California residents please add 6%
sales tax.
A Dianetics Publication. Dianetics is the trademark of L. Ron Hubbard in
respect of his published works. Definition -- DIANETICS: from DIA
(Greek) "through" and NOUS (Greek) "soul." Copyright (c) 1950, 1975 by
L. Ron Hubbard. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THE CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY OF
CALIFORNIA -- a non-profit organization. Scientology is an applied
religious philosophy. Scientology (R) and Dianetics (R) are registered
names.

                BUY THESE
            DIANETIC BOOKS
                  BY
            L. RON HUBBARD

DIANETICS: THE ORIGINAL THESIS
    Written two years before public release of the
    discoveries of Dianetics. Price: ~$5.00~

DIANETICS: THE EVOLUTION OF A SCIENCE
    L. Ron Hubbard's exciting story of the first quarter
    century of Dianetic research. Price: ~$4.00~

DIANETICS: THE MODERN SCIENCE
OF MENTAL HEALTH
    A spectacular international best seller from the first
    moment of its publication in May 1950, this is ~the~
    book of Man's most advanced knowledge and
    technology in the field of the human mind.
    Price: ~$7.00~

NOTES ON THE LECTURES
    From a major lecture series by the founder of Dianetics
    given in the autumn of 1950. Price: ~$5.00~

CHILD DIANETICS
    Compiled by the technical staff of the Hubbard Dianetic
    Research Foundation (1951) from the research files and
    lecture materials of L. Ron Hubbard, and with an introduction
    by him. Price: ~$5.00~

SCIENCE OF SURVIVAL
    The book which is startling the scientific world with its accurate
    methods of predicting human behavior, and its insight into the
    activities of Man. Included with this book of over 500 pages is
    the famous Hubbard Chart of Human Evaluation. Price: ~$8.00~

SELF-ANALYSIS
    A simple self-help volume of tests and processes based on the
    discoveries contained in Dianetics (1951). Price: ~$5.00~

ADVANCED PROCEDURE AND AXIOMS
    Advanced Dianetic discoveries and techniques comprising
    a research breakthrough by L. Ron Hubbard beyond the field of the
    mind into codification of the basic principles of existence.
    Price: ~$4.00~

HANDBOOK FOR PRECLEARS
    Designed for use as a self-help volume and for use by
    the trained auditor and intelligent layman to apply to others.
    Price: ~$5.00~

DIANETICS 55!
    This best seller gives clearly the defined scope of Dianetics
    related to what, by 1955, the impetus of Dianetic discoveries
    and successes had produced--which is Scientology. Much newly
    codified theory and auditor technology. The Six Levels of
    Processing. Communication formula. Indispensable auditor know-how.
    Price: ~$5.00~

HAVE YOU LIVED BEFORE THIS LIFE?
    This book, a scientific survey by L. Ron Hubbard is a study of past
    lives through Dianetic engrams. This is a record of the data given
    during processing. It is a scientific assessment of what the
    subjects said. Price: ~$5.00~

THE BASIC DIANETIC PICTURE BOOK
    The visual aid to a better understanding of Man and the mind, taken
    from the works of L. Ron Hubbard. Price: ~$2.00~

                TAPES
High quality 7" reel-to-reel tapes of lectures made by L. Ron Hubbard on
the subject of Dianetics that explain the technology and breakthroughs
of Dianetic research in great detail. Available from Scientology
Publications Organizations only. (See address list following.) Price:
~$50.00 per reel~ [~two lectures~]
                PABS
These Professional Auditor's Bulletins (PABs) contain writings of L. Ron
Hubbard for use in life and particularly for professional auditors.
Numbers 1 to 160 (6 books). Available from Scientology Publications
Organizations only. (See address list following.) Price: ~$35.00~.

                 * * * * * * * * * * *

                FREE SIX-MONTH MEMBERSHIP

    You are eligible for a free six-month membership as an International
Member of Scientology. You can receive a 10% discount on all books, tape
recorded lectures, and other items priced over $1.25. You also receive
free magazines with vital data, world Dianetic and Scientology news and
modern technical information. New members are eligible for all
International Membership privileges (including 10% discounts) as of the
date of your application.
    Write to: MEMBERSHIP OFFICER, your nearest Church of Scientology.

                CHURCH AND MISSIONS
                      LIST

UNITED STATES

ADVANCED
ORGANIZATION

Church of Scientology of California
Advanced Organization
of Los Angeles
916 South Westlake Street
Los Angeles, California 90006

SAINT HILL
ORGANIZATION

Church of Scientology
American Saint Hill Organization
2723 West Temple Street
Los Angeles, California 90057

PUBLICATIONS
ORGANIZATION

Church of Scientology
Publications Organization
c/o ASHO
2723 West Temple Street
Los Angeles, California 90026

CELEBRITY CENTRES

Church of Scientology
Celebrity Centre
1809 West 8th Street
Los Angeles, California 90057

Church of Scientology
Celebrity Centre New York
30 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10011

Church of Scientology
Celebrity Centre Mexico
120 Alta Vista
San Angel Inn
Mexico 20 DF, Mexico

LOCAL CHURCHES

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Founding Church of Scientology
2125 S Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009

AUSTIN

Church of Scientology
2804 Rio Grande
Austin, Texas 78705

HAWAII

Church of Scientology
143 Nenue Street
Honolulu, Hawaii 96821

SAN DIEGO

Church of Scientology
926 "C" Street
San Diego, California 92101

SAN FRANCISCO

Church of Scientology
414 Mason Street
San Francisco, California 94102

LAS VEGAS

Church of Scientology
2108 Industrial Road
Las Vegas, Nevada 89102

LOS ANGELES

Church of Scientology
2005 West 9th Street
Los Angeles, California 90006

PORTLAND

Church of Scientology
1607 N.E. 41st Street
Portland, Oregon 97232

SEATTLE

Church of Scientology
1531 4th Avenue
Seattle, Washington 98101

ST. LOUIS

Church of Scientology
3730 Lindell Boulevard
St. Louis, Missouri 63108

TWIN CITIES

Church of Scientology
730 Hennepin Avenue
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403

BOSTON

Church of Scientology
488 Beacon Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02215

BUFFALO

Church of Scientology
960 Kenmore Avenue
Buffalo, New York 14216

DETROIT

Church of Scientology
19 Clifford Street
Detroit, Michigan 48226

MIAMI

Church of Scientology
1235 Brickell Avenue
Miami, Florida 33131

NEW YORK

Church of Scientology
49 West 32nd St.
New York, New York 10001

CANADA

TORONTO

Church of Scientology
124 Avenue Road
Toronto 180, Ontario

VANCOUVER

Church of Scientology
4857 Main Street
Vancouver 10
British Columbia

OTTAWA

Church of Scientology
292 Somerset St., West
Ottawa

MONTREAL
Church of Scientology
1168 St. Catherine St., W. 101
Montreal, Quebec H3B 1K1

UNITED KINGDOM

ADVANCED
ORGANIZATION/
SAINT HILL

Hubbard College of Scientology
Advanced Organization Saint Hill
Saint Hill Manor
East Grinstead, Sussex

LOCAL CHURCHES

Saint Hill Foundation
Saint Hill Manor
East Grinstead, Sussex

PLYMOUTH

Hubbard Scientology Organization
39, Portland Square
Shervell
Plymouth, Devon

MANCHESTER

Hubbard Scientology Organization
48 Faulkner St.
Manchester

LONDON

Hubbard Scientology Organization
68, Tottenham Court Road
London W.1

SCOTLAND

HAPI
Fleethouse
20, Southbridge
Edinburgh, Scotland

AUSTRALIA/
NEW ZEALAND

ADELAIDE

Church of the New Faith
28 Restormal Avenue
Fullarton, Adelaide 5063
South Australia

MELBOURNE

Church of the New Faith
724 Inkerman Road
North Caulfield 3161
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia

PERTH

Church of the New Faith
37 Cleaver Street
West Perth 6005
Western Australia

SYDNEY

Church of the New Faith
1 Lee Street
Sydney 2000
New South Wales, Australia

AUCKLAND

Church of Scientology
New Imperial Buildings
Queen Street
Auckland, New Zealand

EUROPE

ADVANCED
ORGANIZATION

Church of Scientology
Advanced Organization Denmark
Kochsvej 28
1812 Copenhagen V
Denmark

SAINT HILL
ORGANIZATION

Church of Scientology
Saint Hill Denmark
Jernbanegade 6
1608 Copenhagen V
Denmark

PUBLICATIONS
ORGANIZATION

Church of Scientology
Publications Organization
c/o SH Denmark
Jernbanegade 6
1608 Copenhagen V
Denmark

LOCAL CHURCHES

COPENHAGEN

Church of Scientology
Hovedbagtsgade 6
1103 Copenhagen K
Denmark

Church of Scientology
Hennington Alle 68
2900 Hellerup
Denmark

PARIS

Church of Scientology
Eglise de Scientology
58 rue De Londres
75 Paris 8
France

VIENNA

Church of Scientology
A-1070 Wien
Mariahilferstrasse 88A/Stg. 3/1/9
Vienna, Austria

BRUSSELS

Church of Scientology
Rue de I'Ecuyer
1000 Brussels
Belgium

AMSTERDAM

Church of Scientology
Singel 261
Amsterdam, Netherlands

BERLIN

Church of Scientology
1000 Berlin 12
Giesebrechstr. 10
Berlin, Germany

MUNICH

Church of Scientology
8000 Munich 2
Lindwurmstrabe 29-31
West Germany

GOTEBORG

Church of Scientology
Magasingsgatan 12
S-411 19 Goteborg, Sweden

OREBRO

Church of Scientology
Klostergatan 27
S-703 62 Orebro
Sweden

ESKILSTUNA

Church of Scientology
Kungsgatan 43
S-632 21 Eskilstuna
Sweden

STOCKHOLM

Church of Scientology
Drottninggatan 53
S-111 21 Stockholm
Sweden

MALMO

Church of Scientology
Skomakaregatan 12
S-211 34 Malmo
Sweden

AFRICA

JOHANNESBURG

Church of Scientology
99 Polly Street
Johannesburg, South Africa

CAPE TOWN

Church of Scientology
3rd Floor Garmour House
127 Plein Street
Cape Town, South Africa

DURBAN

Church of Scientology
57 College Lane
Durban, South Africa

PORT ELIZABETH

Church of Scientology
9 Lowcliffe House
Main Street
Port Elizabeth, South Africa

PRETORIA

Church of Scientology
224 Central House
Cnr Central & Pretorious Streets
Pretoria, South Africa

BULAWAYO

Church of Scientology
210-211 Kirrie Bldgs
Cnr Abercorn & 9th Avenue
Bulawayo, Rhodesia

MISSION LIST

IN U.S.A.

Scientology Mission of Albuquerque
613 San Mateo Blvd NE.
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87108

Scientology Mission of Amarillo
2046 S. Hayden
Amarillo, Texas 79109

Scientology Mission of Ann Arbor
203 East Ann
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48108

Scientology Mission of Boston
69 Broad Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02110

Scientology Mission of Boulder
Box 995
Boulder, Colorado 80302

Scientology Mission of Cambridge
8 Essex Street
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139

Scientology Mission of Central Ohio
3894 N. High Street
Columbus, Ohio 43214

Scientology Mission of Charlotte
1627 Montford Dr.
Charlotte, North Carolina 28209

Scientology Mission of Chicago
108 East Oak Street
Villa Park, Illinois 60181

Scientology Mission of Dallas
10443 Royal Club
Dallas, Texas 75229

Scientology Mission of Delaware
Valley
Suite 924, 1 Cherry Hill Mall
Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08034

Scientology Mission of Denver
1643 Boulder Street
Denver, Colorado 80211

Scientology Mission of El Paso
1517 Montana Street
El Paso, Texas 79902

Scientology Mission of Fifth Avenue
30 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10011

Scientology Mission of Ft.
    Lauderdale
423 N. Andrews Ave.
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 33301

Scientology Mission of Houston
2415 Brazoria Street
Houston, Texas 77019

Scientology Mission of Hudson
PO Box 636
Hudson, Ohio 44236

Scientology Mission of Jersey City
43 Emory Street
Jersey City, New Jersey 07304

Scientology Mission of Kansas City
1715 West 39th Street
Kansas City, Missouri 64111

Scientology Mission of Lakeview
3204 N. Broadway
Chicago, Illinois 60657

Scientology Mission of Main Line
8 West Lancaster Ave.
Ardmore, Pennsylvania 19003

Scientology Mission of Middletown
1240a Farmington Ave.
Berlin, Connecticut 06457

Scientology Mission of New Hope
2738 Winnetka Ave. N.
New Hope, Minnesota 55427

Scientology Mission of New Jersey
PO Box 548, Elma Avenue
Burlington, New Jersey 08016

Scientology Mission of New York
500 West End Ave., Suite 2B
New York, New York 10024

Scientology Mission of Norris
PO Box 66
Norris, Tennessee 37828

Scientology Mission of North
    Manhattan
Apt. 2A, 251 West 98th Street
New York, New York 10025

Scientology Mission of Omaha
103 S. 35 Ave.
Omaha, Nebraska 68131

Scientology Mission of Orlando
Box 14045
Orlando, Florida 32807

Scientology Mission of Peoria
1011 Main Street
Peoria, Illinois 61606

Scientology Mission of Puerto Rico
PO Box 211
Old San Juan PO
San Juan, Puerto Rico 00902

Scientology Mission of Richardson
114 N. McKinney
Richardson, Texas 75080

Scientology Mission of San Antonio
200 Donaldson
San Antonio, Texas 78201

Scientology Mission of Southwest
PO Box 5506
Irving, Texas 75060

Scientology Mission of St. Thomas
PO Box 697
St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands
00801

Scientology Mission of Twin Cities
4100 Queen Ave. S.
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55410

Scientology Mission of Urbana
204 W. University Ave.
Urbana, Illinois 61801

Scientology Mission of Waterbury
42 Bank Street
Waterbury, Connecticut 06702

Scientology Mission of Westchester
11 Lake Road
Peekskill, New York 10566

Scientology Mission of
    Adams Avenue
3200 Adams Avenue Bldg., Suite 102
San Diego, California 92116

Scientology Mission of Berkeley
1918 Bonita Avenue
Berkeley, California 94704

Scientology Mission of Canoga Park
23444 Kittridge Street
Canoga Park, California 91304

Scientology Mission of Castro Valley
20730 Lake Chabot Road
Castro Valley, California 94546

Scientology Mission of Chula Vista
192 Landis Street
Chula Vista, California 92010

Scientology Mission of Corona
    Del Mar
421 Goldenrod
Corona del Mar, California 92625

Scientology Mission of Dana Point
34212 Violet Lantern
Dana Point, California 92629

Scientology Mission of Davis
1046 Olive Drive
Davis, California 95616

Scientology Mission of Sacramento
1725 23rd Street
Sacramento, California 95816

Scientology Mission of East Bay
411-15th Street
Oakland, California 94612

Scientology Mission of Flagstaff
4469 Mountain Meadows Dr.
Flagstaff, Arizona 86001

Scientology Mission of Harvard
749 S. Harvard Blvd.
Los Angeles, California 90005

Scientology Mission of Hawaii
1282 Kapiolani Blvd.
Honolulu, Hawaii 96814

Scientology Mission of Lake Tahoe
PO Box 7866
South Lake Tahoe, California 95705

Scientology Mission of Long Beach
1261 Long Beach Blvd.
Long Beach, California 90813

Scientology Mission of Los Gatos
250 Loma Alta Avenue
Los Gatos, California 95030

Scientology Mission of Meadows
1326 Las Vegas Blvd. S.
Las Vegas, Nevada 89101

Scientology Mission of
    Orange County
436 West 6th Street
Tustin, California 92680

Scientology Mission of Palo Alto
600 Middlefield Road
Palo Alto, California 94301

Scientology Mission of Pasadena
634 E. Colorado Blvd.
Pasadena, California 91101

Scientology Mission of Phoenix
1722 E. Indian School Rd.
Phoenix, Arizona 85016

Scientology Mission of Riverside
4465 Mulberry Street
Riverside, California 92501

Scientology Mission of Sacramento
3027 Arden Way
Sacramento, California 95825

Scientology Mission of Salt Lake City
253 East 2nd S.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

Scientology Mission of Santa Barbara
746 State Street
Santa Barbara, California 93101

Scientology Mission of Santa Clara
36 Harold Ave.
Santa Clara, California 95117

Scientology Mission of SCS
3802 Riverside Dr.
Burbank, California 91505

Scientology Mission of South Bay
607 S. Pacific Coast Hwy.
Redondo Beach, California 90277

Scientology Mission of Sunset Strip
8863 Sunset Blvd.
Hollywood, California 90069

Scientology Mission of Tucson
2100 E. Speedway
Tucson, Arizona 85719

Scientology Mission of Valley
13561A Ventura Blvd.
Sherman Oaks, California 91403

Scientology Mission of
    Washoe Valley
812 N. Virginia
Reno, Nevada 89501

Scientology Mission of Westwood/Wilshire
10911 Weyburn Ave.
Westwood, Los Angeles, California
90024

CANADA

Scientology Mission of Calgary
209 8th Avenue SW, Room 607
Calgary 2, Alberta, Canada

Scientology Mission of Edmonton
PO Box 1198
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

Scientology Mission of Hamilton
24 John Street N., Apt. 5
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada

Scientology Mission of Niagara
455 St. Paul St. St. Catherine's
Ontario, Canada

Scientology Mission of Regina
1818 Scarth No. 6
Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada

Scientology Mission of Vancouver
1524 West 6th Avenue
Vancouver 8, British Columbia
Canada

Scientology Mission of Winnipeg
410 Spence Street
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada

SOUTH AFRICA

Scientology Mission of Durban (in
    S.A. (Pty.) Ltd.)
401 Cennewa House
West Street, Durban

Scientology Mission of Hillbrow (in
    S.A. (Pty.) Ltd.)
201 Hunstanton, C/r
Twist & Kotze Sts.
Hillbrow, Johannesburg

Scientology Mission of Johannesburg
    (in S.A. (Pty.) Ltd.)
PO Box 8835
Johannesburg

Scientology Mission of Johannesburg
    (in S.A. (Pty.) Ltd.)
608 African City Bldg., Sixth Floor
100 Eloff Street
Johannesburg

Scientology Mission of
    Pietermaritzburg (in S.A.
          (Pty.) Ltd.)
Dieuwke Hill
11 Hodson Road
Scottsville, Pietermaritzburg

NEW ZEALAND

Scientology Mission of Christchurch
16 Almer Street
Christchurch 2, New Zealand

Scientology Mission of Ellerslie
1 Ranier Street
Ellerslie
Auckland, New Zealand

Scientology Mission of North Shore
1 Northumberland Ave.
Takapuna 9, New Zealand

AUSTRALIA

The New Faith Mission of Melville
15 Birdwood Road
Melville, Western Australia 6156

EUROPE

Scientology Mission of Angers
14 Place de L'Hotel de Ville
49290 Chalommes sur Louire
Angers, France

Scientology Mission of Berlin
1000 Berlin 12,
Giesebrechstr 10, Germany

Scientology Mission of Berlin
1 Berlin 28 (Frohnau)
Bulgenbachweg 4, Germany

Scientology Mission of Bogenhausen
8 Munchen 80,
Postfach 860425,
West Germany

Scientology Mission of Brabant
27 Rue General MacArthur
1180 Bruxelles, Belgium

Scientology Mission of Brussels
122 Rue Charles Degroux
1040 Bruxelles, Belgium

Scientology Mission of Franken
D-71 Heilbronn
Goethestr 26, W. Germany

Scientology Mission of Frankfurt
6000 Frankfurt Am Main
Kennedy Allee 33
West Germany

Scientology Mission of Hamburg
2000 Hamburg 36,
Gerhofstrasse 18, W. Germany

Scientology Mission of Heilbronn
71 Heilbronn
Fleinerstr 37, W. Germany

Scientology Mission of Hillerod
Esrum Hovedgade 17,
3230 Gaested, Denmark

Scientology Mission of Munich
8 Munchen 71
Drygalskiallee 118/205
West Germany

Scientology Mission of Munich
8 Munchen 80,
Richard Strauss Str 46
West Germany

Scientology Mission of Paris
147 Rue St. Charles
75 Paris 15, France

Scientology Mission of Strandvejen
Hejreskovalle 26
3050 Humlebaek, Denmark

Scientology Mission of Stuttgart
7000 Stuttgart 1
Hauptstatterstrasse 126A
West Germany

Scientology Mission of Ven
Jarnvagsgatan 5,
261 32 Landskrona, Sweden

Scientology Mission of Vienna
Mariahilferstrasse 88A, Stg 3
III 9, 1070 Wien, Austria

Scientology Mission of Zurich
Mulibachstr 423/6,
8185 Winkel-Ruti, Switzerland

UNITED KINGDOM

Scientology Mission of Birmingham
128A Alcester Road
Moseley,
Birmingham 13, England

Scientology Mission of Helensburgh
121 West King Street
Helensburgh, Dunbartonshire
Scotland

Scientology Mission of London
14 Lyndhurst Road
London NW 3

Scientology Mission of Southampton
33 Runnymede, West End
Southampton, Hants, England

Scientology Mission of Swansea
1 Highpool Close, Newton,
Mumbles, Swansea, Wales

Scientology Mission of Reading
"St. Michael's", Shinfield Rd.
Reading, Berkshire, England

OTHER AREAS

Scientology Mission of Empalme
Apartado Postal 181, Guaymas
Sonora, Mexico

Scientology Mission of Mexico
Pasaje de los Alpes 11F
Mexico 20 DF, Mexico

Scientology Mission of Mexico
Avenida Nuevo Leon 159 1¤,
Mexico 11 DF, Mexico

Scientology Mission of Mexico
Campos Eliseos 205
Mexico 5 DF, Mexico

Scientology Mission of Negev
PO Box 2098
Beer Sheva, Israel

Scientology Mission of Rio
    de Janeiro
Av N S Copacabana 74, Apt 202,
Rio de Janeiro GB, Brazil






























